12-May-2023 - 10:36 - 1h09m31s – Ana
Researcher 1: Perfect. So thank you Ana for agreeing, and would you like to expand on your field of research? And what are the typical research methods you use for gathering and data?
Ana: Yes, I am doing my PhD where I'm looking at, basically, I'm looking at documents on the one hand. I did interviews, and I did also workshops. So that is yeah data collection…
Researcher 1: The methods.
Ana: …but I don't like to call it that, data collection, because it was more like - step from the documents about the interviews and the worships - were more like co-production of knowledge. So interviews were not only semi structured, but more like dialogical interviews. Um, so yeah, the concept of data gathering is not, you know, it doesn't, in my opinion, it doesn't really convey what I was doing?
Researcher 1: Yeah. Okay, perfect. And, and what are the, what are your methods and what method you use to analyse your data, and what type of tools or software did you use?
Ana:  What I'm doing to analyse the data is, I'm doing mostly, kind of mapping and diagrams. So also, because I don't want to, I think that a lot, often-times, when you do an analysis of an interview what people end up doing is a quantitative analysis of how many times a certain word has appeared. As I say, this is, this is not what I'm doing. But, I'm doing more, is trying to understand from my own experience, being part of the municipalists movement. I'm from my own experience of being part of processes that we're creating comments, and from my own experience of being [an] urban planner, I'm trying to see the elements that on the one hand resonates with my experience, but on the other hand also resonates with a certain political priority and this political priority is the politically processes of the commons which entails transformation of the way institutions work. But not only public institutions, but also social institutions. And what I'm trying to figure out is what are the new elements that, then, are, should be incorporated into the . To say, I don't use software. I do analysis by hand. I am doing, well, diagrams, relational mapping on the one hand, and it’s relation with documents, which is the less, obviously, it's not copyright news. I would say in this specific case to a certain degree…
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Ana: …because those documents came from a political social act. Listen, where I was part[ner] with other college part of it. So it's not like it's so detached from my own experience. But there, what I'm doing is something called ‘knowledge graph’. And, it’s, um, yeah something that is applied to databases, but I'm doing it also you know, it's a small set of data, let's say, so I just, I had manually. So, I used the…
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm. That's very interesting.
Ana: I mostly use InDesign. I'm sorry, Illustrator, to draw…
Researcher 1: Mmm. Okay. Yeah. So you're doing them by hand and…
Ana: …so I'm wrong.
Researcher 1: …then you're passing them, or digitalizing them with Illustrator, in Illustrator?
Ana: …yeah, either they make right,…
Researcher 1: ‘...sort of…
Ana: …sometimes throw directly into Illustrator, and sometimes I, I do, I draw them by hand, and then I put in a Illustrator on the top. Yeah. But, for example, on the workshops I was doing, the diagrams when we were doing the workshop. So for me, doing the diagrams, it's a way of thinking. so, you know, like, I think that there is also - often this idea - that you have data and then you apply, it's like a machine, right? Like you are gathering things so you up all your, you know…
Researcher 1: Hmm.
Ana: …like, yeah, whatever materials here, and then you apply an analysis, which is like the machine, and then, and then something comes out. That's not my, I mean my analysis are much more craft. That's it, amazing, and…
Researcher 1:  That sounds really interesting, and what, you mentioned a little bit of some of the theories you are using, but which is your analytical framework or your theoretical framework?
Ana:  The theoretical framework I'm using? Well, yeah, that depends on, you mean, on the methods of analysis or the theoretical framework for the, because I think that there is a mix on the methods of analysis, I am using, like, a very personal version of grounded theory, which means I have, it's an inductive-deductive…
Researcher 1: Hmm.
Ana:  …methodology. I come to the field with my own ideas and assumptions. And yeah, not only aims and objectives, but also, like, kind of an idea of what is happening, because I have previous experience. Then I did, I did the analysis through the, let's call it that gathering. That means that, when I did the first analysis of the documents, and out of that analysis then I decided what to do with the interviews, and out of the interviews then I decided what to do with the method. So, I have three phases, and the three phases are iterative, where each of the phases depends on the first one. And the first one depends on my own experience, which could be like, we call it phase zero. So this is like, like this will be like, the theoretical framework of - the how I did the project. But how I treat the results, I am using more actor-network theory. And specifically,…
Researcher 1:  Mm-hmm.
Ana: …I am applying concept developed by Isabelle Stengers, which is called, and she proposes an Ecology of Practices. And she has a text from the 2005, called  Notes of an Ecology of Practices, when I'm trying to also feel about this.
Researcher 1:  Mmmm. Okay.
Ana: But that, this elements that she mentions, which is Technologies of Belonging, Strategies of challenges, and diplomacy, and Fostering and empowerment. And she also worked with the concept of a cause. So I'm trying to see what are the ecology of practices that municipalists, and in the institution, and social actors. How, yeah, how they were interacting on these, producing of urban commons - and that in itself was an ecology of practices that are different, and there is a new emerging ecology. So there was like the practice of the institution, on one hand, the practice of social movements as it was, and then a new practice that it is this new practice like oh, then becoming one of the public.
Researcher 1:  And that's really good. It's really interesting. And what is your experience with working with qualitative data in your usual research?
Ana: um, well, as I said, I think that qualitative data is, I would say it's more complicated to me to work with, because if I would do a machine, or you know, some other analysis of data, well, that's complicated. I mean I'm not saying like, I think, I mean all this could be. I have friends who do discursive analysis. For example, I'm not you know, like trying to imply that the language, natural language programming, is easy - because it is not. It's very complicated. But I think that somehow [Name Redacted] research, it is much more solid to say “I have these numbers”. You know, this is a, this is - nine is more than eight, you know, you have it. And so…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana:  …I think that, for me, precisely one, one of the characteristics of qualitative data is that it cannot be quantified. And when it cannot be quantified, it is complicated to apply for me software that then tries to count things. Or to put numbers to it. And, and, to that degree, I think that we are closer or lately, I have found that anthropologies class much more this capacity of taking, you know, the textures and the nature of the thing in another way, right? So, yeah, I think for me, that's it. It's like, I feel like, for the things that I'm doing, the tools provided by a more, let's say traditional social science approach, all right, [are] a little bit yeah, not so well designed for this...
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Ana:  …and maybe I'm more of [an] anthropological approach will happen…
Researcher 1:  Okay.
Ana:  …just for some, yeah.
Researcher 1:  And that's very interesting. Yeah. And what is, no, I agree with you! I also think, like, coming from a quantitative background. I also found working with qualitative data more challenging, because, like, you say, you cannot quantify really. So, yeah, you have to find another way of approaching it, and when you…
Ana: I think that the interpretation of the data is, it's not so straightforward, and I think that  - which might not, might not be the next question - is what makes it also difficult to make it open? Because you have to explain everything like, you know, like if you do some of the, kind of data, and then you know, like, the golden stand here will be, in the laboratory. It's something that assumes that there is this neutrality. And actually, it is a positivist, you know, position. But it makes it easy, yeah, because you could say “This is my data”. So “This is my sheet, this is my database, this is the software I have to apply. This is what has come out of these analyses”. Good. But if I have to do this with my own analysis, I have to explain - “What is my background, what I thought these with, what is the - what is [indecipherable]? But this is coming back then [to] how I have interpreted these, why these things I am not looking at. So just in mind that you do this with 50 interviews, that I have, I mean, it's just, it's not possible. Like, I will spend the three years just explaining what I'm doing. So, not feasible.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Yeah. I agree. And what is your, well, you talk a little bit about this. But what is your perception, and if you have any practice of doing open research, or we do with open research in general.
Ana:  I am, yeah. so again, just explain where I come from, I come from a culture of Copyleft culture. I have published most of the things that I have written before going to academia with Creative, Commons. And I have worked with people that have been very active in open source movement. So, when I entered academia, I was very familiar with, yeah, open methodology, with co-creation, with collaboration, with collective authorship. And also basically, with the idea that we are all doing collective authorship, like, I come from a political tradition that considers that knowledge is not of ever of one specific person, because what you know is always shaped by many other sources, and people and is, you know, your own interpretation and you - your own recombination of these things. Not that that makes what you're doing original. But it's always based on someone else's, you know, from the people that have, did you to speak [with] the people that have, you to think, to all the books that you have - that right? So all these, it's always like collective thinking. So this is my approach. So when I started the project, I wanted to have it on a platform, and I wanted to have it open from the beginning. So I have used something which is called, I was looking for different tools. I started thinking, I'm going to design my own website. Then again one of the principles also of open knowledge is produced, that it's already there, so don't try to, you know, reinvent the wheel every time, but, you know, like formats and and so structures that are there. So I started using this called Open Science framework on Open science framework is a platform, but precisely to do open research and collaborative research. Um, so I have everything there. That means that I have put my applications, to the grants are there, my whole confirmation is there. So whenever someone says “Hey Ana, can I take a look at your ethics application, which is super useful because we have no idea how to do these things, you know?” And you go to a course, they give you an example. Maybe it's not at all what you're doing. So I learned a lot by other people, by reading to other people’s applications, and you know, and presentations. So if you go to these, to this project, you could - anybody can download all the documents that I have produced that are more or less, that I finished, I don't have. But they have, like, the structure of the thesis that has been uploaded and this is where I'm going, where I will upload. Let's say the whole thesis with the chapters when they are finished…
Researcher 1: Hmm.
Ana: …they will be on this platform.
Ana:  Then, so this is one thing I'm doing, which is being transparent about the process. Or being transparent about the product. So, [to] explain what I've done. And the second thing that I'm doing is that I am asking everybody, which I don't know if you have asked, but I have [been] asking everybody permission to upload their interviews. So I'm transcribing the interviews, I am editing them. Some taking all this, you know, like whatever oral expressions, to get it edited at an interview, and I'm going to upload them to ORDA, then to the, to the repository, the University, Um, probably or maybe UK. I mean, like I have an ESRC grant, or probably it doesn't really matter a lot. But yeah, one and and I have asked everybody permission or other researchers to use their Interview. So I have, yeah, permission for doing it. And I did this since the Masters, for example. So, but this means it's like, now I'm redoing analysis of some interviews that I did four years ago, because I asked those people permission to. So that their interviews could be reused, so I’m reusing them.
Researcher 1: Okay.
Ana: For example.
Researcher 1: So you're reusing your own data, and also like some resources that you found in the Open Science framework, but you're basically, for your research, you are reusing your own - like the data you collected that previously. So, here,…
Ana: Yeah, this is a tiny. It's a tiny part…
Researcher 1: …I think maybe.
Ana: …but yeah. so it's like,…
Researcher 1: Okay perfect.
Ana: Three out of 55 or something like, it's tiny, tiny.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: It is an example of what happens is like, and I've been there, like, I have been interviewed for projects, and I do interviews with people, and then I meet another people, and they have done the interviews to the same people. So I know people that are giving, I don't know, like interviews every week. They give an interview to another researcher -. So people are just coming from all over the world to just do interviews with these people. So it's, to what I think is, like guys, you know, like if someone wants to do an interview with these people, maybe they should look before without accessible, not accessible interviews, and then reuse knowledge on the top of that.
Researcher 1:  Yeah, yeah. I like that approach.
Ana:  No?
Researcher 1: And well, you mentioned a little bit…
Ana:  So I asked, so the point is, sorry - just to finish - is like, the point is like, before going to academia, I was asking researchers that interview with me, I asked them to put my interview, to publish my interview. and to make it available. So, that was my requirement before, when it was data, I know, yeah.
Researcher 1: Okay. And they have done that? The researchers that interview?
Ana: Oh well, in one location. I'm sure. And the rest, I mean, like, I was supposed to be, they usually do it. I have, also, I have, also have to say that I had a very bad experience with someone…
Researcher 1: Okay.
Ana: …who not only didn't publish it, but didn't even mention it. Well, anyway, so it was a very bad experience as one, some, yeah, everything. And yeah.
Researcher 1:  Oh. Sorry about that. Yeah, this is life.
Ana:  This is like, the best in the world's, always and everything.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Yes. Well you've mentioned already this. Well, I'm still going to ask a little bit of, in case, you have something in a different or…
Ana:  Yeah.
Researcher 1: …more to expand on. And what is your opinion of making qualitative data open access?
Ana: I think that it's a very, as I said, I think it's complicated. Well, I think it's difficult.
Researcher 1:  Mm-hmm.
Ana: It's more difficult, because to make it in a way that can be reused, the people understand the context. And it takes a lot of time, but, I think it's, it would be great. I mean, I would have loved to, to have a database of interviews. I mean, if the people that I was interviewing, or having interviews with would have their, there are other interviews available, we're having great.
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana:  Yeah, I think it's, I think it's, it's very good. And we need it. No?
Researcher 1: Yeah, great. Thank you and what? Well you've mentioned a little bit of these before, and can you expand on the perceived barriers or challenges that you see in making qualitative data open access?
Ana:  For me, personally, what has been more complicated is that it's a lot of extra work. And as I said, I think that for quantitative data, you have that. So it's very different, different because I can have, I don't know an interview - for how I work with it is, I could just listen to it. You know, even do the interview, take my notes, you know, write the notes how I feel them, you know, and transcribe them into these diagrams, and knowledge graphs, and then I present the knowledge graph to represent all the data that is behind this knowledge graph. It's not the same as quantitative data in the sense that I don't have, it's like, in order to make quantity qualitative available you have to go into explaining your own process of thinking, and your own process of analysis, which then is, of course, you know, like a good sign, this the method. But that's not, I think that that's not how everybody operates. Now, it's like, if you imagine that you are doing something which is more like historical analysis. um, so making because all these, that the qualitative data, in order to be also good for example, if I take the interviews, it's not enough to have the interviews. I will have to organize, you know, the title - who was there, when it was taken, what was the place, what is the context? Do a small summary of the text, and put hashtags? But these, that I do it in my head, and are increases you know, pieces of paper here and there, and, you know, a note here and note there if it needs [to be] done. It's not there already. So if we want, really to, to do, not to do this interchangeable…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …the acceptable data. It's exercise for it,  and I see it, for example,…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: …with the interviews, like, if I want to have a good transcription, that someone reads it and gets what the conversation was about, becauseI'm doinginterviews with people in the city council or people that are in projects. And if I want to do this, is, it's a lot of work of editing. It's not the same as, just, you know, getting the sense of it and taking the main themes, and I'm doing my own analysis.
Researcher 1: There are any enabling factors to make qualitative data open access.
Ana:  I think that, mmm, [you] start from just having more hours and more money to do it really, did like ,a very important enabling factor, you know. To have, like, probably what I didn't, I didn't take this into account, because I thought it was, I didn't think it was going to be so time-consuming. But in a project, in a bigger project, I think that there should be, like a work package, which is only about open access. And this is our package, it has its hours, and has its own money. The point is like, if you want it available, you have to know that this is, mmm, you know, like, time-consuming. But at the same time, when I was looking for platforms, not where to put the data because this is, you know, like okay, there is data, there is - there is different databases - and you could put the data there, but more, like, to have these, you know frameworks or displays, where you could follow these [indecipherable]. For example, open science framework, which is again a little bit dry, you know, so I, but I think will be also something that happens when, when, some of these places are emerging, is that my, only my interviews don't really amount to much, I mean, yeah, there [are], I don't know, 40, 50, final edited interviews is fine, but what we will need is a database of thousands of interviews, and it's difficult to visualise where this is, also if it's cluttered. So I think that a better planned platform, trained database, you know someone - that explains, or at least takes some more significant fields, or areas of interest and shows, now, but how this is available, how this is articulated, how this project that applied in this way and this method then had all these different, you know, like products available. I think this would be much more interesting. It would be interesting, also, for people, or for researchers, because you will be more aware that what you're doing is part of something bigger than you. And I think that still, and I'm like, I follow, you know, Twitter accounts that do, you know, like I work on open science and I follow it a little bit. I mean superexpert, but I follow it, and it's still, I feel like I am doing these out of, you know, like activism through the, this open thing with - partly it's…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …why I'm doing. But it would be, I think that will be useful, if we could have this sense of, this is one piece that goes in why they’re asking, you know, you came, but you can see that there is something that [is] already useful.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: …you don't know where we're, yeah, maybe they have a good class back, and then people can find it, will know that, who will…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: …then know that I have done this effort, and this work, who would use it. It's also…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: …then I think as well, one thing that I have to say and I don't know if this is good or not, I said, I said from the beginning, the University [Redacted - University name] not getting this copyright, because if everything is Creative Commons,…
Researcher 1: Hmm. Yeah.
Ana: …there is no point - that they have the problem, right? So people can get their own copyright. This, I write this question to you guys, and this, for me, it's interesting because this is about autonomy, and this is about giving people agency about their own data. And I think that waving out copyright rights, it's not the way to go, honestly, because if you are going to share it, I mean even if the point to have the copyright - is that I have to have the copyright, because otherwise I cannot publish it. It's like yeah, if you have the copyright, you cannot. If you don't have the copyright, you cannot publish it. And then I could be right, if you have a copyright, but people have a right have agreed to do Creative Commons. And you can use it, and reuse it, and you can publish however you want. So this for me, as I said, I come from the Copyleft movement. I don't agree with this copyright? Sometimes you have to, you know, go with it - because you know how the publishing world is. But, I don't think it's fitting. To me, [it] is shocking to have a research that goes about open and data and then asked me to wave my copyrights. It is shocking for me. It's like for me, and until the technical...
Researcher 1: Hmm.
Ana: So, and enable - another enabling thing is like, to have very clear ethics. It's like, if you follow, if you chose to follow these, then - which is what I have done. So what I have done with people is, it says, ask them, as their permission to use the data for my research. Ask them how they want to be, but I do it in the, in, you can, you can have my ethics applications in the open science framework…
Researcher 1: Thank you.
Ana: …but so I have asked them how they want to be identified. I said that in any case, I have to be identified with a short explanation of where they are, because I cannot go and say “You know, like some random anonymous people”, because this is not what my research is about. So even if they are identified with a subdominium, it's not fully anonymized, they have to know this. I mean I have to say this person is symbolic in this project, in this kind of capacity of role, because this is what makes you know, this interview relevant. And as I said, I ask them to agree that all these products will come with Creative Commons. I have said that my products and my outcomes will go with Creative Commons as well, because it's only first, we will produce things under Creative Commons. And the first thing, as I said, is like, I have asked them specifically permission for their data to be reused by other by other researchers. So I did include the FAIR principles in my ethics application, and I did say [in] my, I think application that, that I will go through to an open source. So that means that I will then, for example, I usually straight for doing the diagrams, but Illustrator is proprietary software. So I will say the files as .EPS And then share them as .CPS.
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Ana: That also means that when I will upload the interviews I do. I use Libra Office which is not, it's not, it's not in Office - Windows. It is another extension. So the, but nevertheless, I will use .TXT extension. So, I will, my working files are in one kind of formats, but when I will upload them, I will upload them in an interchangeable format. So the most, let's say, yeah, the format that can be used for more people….
Researcher 1: Anyway….
Ana: …so that, and that example in Illustrator means that files are much bigger than an .EPS file - is much bigger for example than, and AI - so I use AI for, for the, for the process. But yeah. final, final shareable, will be on shareable documents, Yeah?
Researcher 1:  Yeah. then open access or, or is there a tension…
Ana: No. No. I mean, what I come, but I said, like, my, my project comes from the idea that I am part of the larger community, which is a very loose community. It's not that I'm part of a, you know, very concrete project, with concrete people, but I'm part of a political project, a wider practice, political practice, and I'm trying to contribute to that as well. So, I'm trying to contribute to academic knowledge, but I'm trying to contribute to practice-based knowledge as well. So the only way to make these available and compatible with the principles of my political practice is to do it open source. I was doing Office before, and so, if I'm doing open culture and open, and working with open source, so it's only natural that then I do open science. But it is complicated, like I would like to, I would love to do everything much more open, but just like, first, you have to feed it. We've seen constraints in the university that are not thought to these, like, these things - University have to have the copyright. Like honestly, I have spent a number of emails asking “Why do you want the copyright?” “What happens if I do open access, you still need the copyright?” So at the end, I presented the ‘30's application with no Copyright, because but nobody really was saying, “Yes, Ana, if you're doing this, then…” because they go on about open knowledge and open science, but at the same time, university wants to have the copyright - because they do want to have the right [to] commodify this knowledge. So honestly, like I am, this is, this is, we need a tension, not so much between my epistemic background and what I'm doing. But the tension is between and academic structure that has, you know, like one point - which might not be in qualitative data - because who the are ones like nobody's going to make money out of, you know, our interviews. But people are going to make money out of whatever, you know, like building structure, they want to put a patent on. Then again, this is for me, a little bit, you know, because I have agrant, that means that I'm getting money that is public, and actually yes, I see it's the months that's the research goes open source and open science so that they are asking actively researchers to publish their data sets and the results in open formats and open source. But for example, now there is this problem that - could that, would be about, for example, what do you do when you publish it? Because following this thing, your paper, or my papers, they will have to go to an open access format, but open access format will cost per thousand euros, but UK pounds.
Researcher 1: You know.
Ana: So it costs a lot of money to publish in open formats as well.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: So you don't have this support. If you haven't put in your, in your own fostering cultures of open qualitative research, that you need 10,000 pounds or 5,000 pounds to pay for the open format of the article, the article will have to go to Copyrighted, under a copyright…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …which is, you know, like, it blows up my mind. Like, you cannot have, like, articles about different research that, I mean, like, and they are copyrighted, that are not open.
Researcher 1:  Not open here.
Ana: It's a little bit crazy. No? So yeah.
Researcher 1:  Yeah. Yeah, it is a bit. Yeah, capitalist university!
Ana:  Yeah. Well, but this, this is the thing. Not like, it's not, maybe it's not my epistemic background, but the university systemic coherence that are a tension here. Uh yeah, as part of, and this, I'm a recognised like, we I didn't foresee the complexity of doing this, not open, so this is - this is all my responsibility. But there are parts that are not. Yeah.
Researcher 1: He yeah, but I am sure you finish it in time, like…
Ana: No. No. I mean, just, but also like, “This is the idea Ana”, like it's, “It's a very complex process. We don't have the protocols, we haven't incorporated. There is nobody, you know, like people in your confirmation will last, you know, in the review”. They ask you “How are you going to get that? And How is your literature review?” But nobody asks you in the review, “How are you going  to make your data open?” So right now it's like something that you put on the top of the things and…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …something that is assumed that is part of a process. So that culture has to change…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …but the point is, like, then you do a step-by-step. No, so, I don't know, maybe this time, but I'm - so this time what I'm going to focus [on[ is, okay, I'm going to have a very good explanation of how has been that, the process, or at least, you know, to have this documented. The process is documented, which is a lot of work, and the interviews are available. That's it.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: But maybe I don't work on the metadata, because that's like another whole layer.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: So, in the next research, because I already know how hard this is, but I have done it. Then it says, “Okay, I know how to do the process. I know to the engine. Now I'm going to do the middle”, so but not to try, like, you know, because doing a good open qualitative research in your [indecipherable] it's a project in itself.
Researcher 1: Yeah, yeah,…
Ana:  Right, no?
Researcher 1: …no, it is very challenging. Well, you've already mentioned a lot about these question, but I'll, well, just talk about, a lot about this, of…
Ana:  Again?
Researcher 1: …what I want to ask you, but I'll just ask you again…
Ana:  Okay. Okay.
Researcher 1: …if, in case you want to expand. So, well, it is very, like you're making your own qualitative data open access, but why you're doing it? Like you mentioned that is to contribute to the larger community you are part of… 
Ana:  To contribute to the larger community, and part of, to contribute to, the academic community as well. I mentioned [to] one of the people that I interviewed that “No, you know, but this is going to be open access” and they say “We don't care. It's, like, it doesn't matter to us, you know, you can throw it in the rubbish”. So actually, they ask these people that I was interviewing, they say “Okay”, when the point is like, I'm interviewing people, I'm just people’s time and these people are activists, so they have [a] limited amount of time. So first, they have to trust that what I'm doing eventually could be useful for them. Some people said like, “We don't think this is going to be useful for us, It doesn't matter”. But then they say, “But then you have to give something in return”. So if we ever want to make a talk about the town planning, you will come, and this is only fair. It's like, these people are giving me hours of their life.
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana:  So I want to put something back, I put something back, hoping that my research will be useful for them, that [is] what I'm thinking makes them, you know, like whatever, you resonate with whatever they are doing. I give back by publishing. Also, one, as I said at the beginning, one thing that would be great is that - by the way, that I think it helps them as well - is that if people can't read before, you know, the interviews, maybe they don't have been [a] thousand times. But they also, the, the thing is, like, right now, we [are] also working in academia, where you have to have your own original interviews, right? So I don't know, maybe another way to foster these cultures [is] to say, “Hey, go and make a qualitative project with whatever qualitative that is available”, don't go around, you know, like doing interviews.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: Use the interviews that are already there. Because new interpretation, I am, I'm interested - what I'm seeing, for example, in this, my own reuse of these three interviews, which is interesting, is that it's not only that I am reusing them - which is good. It's also that I see that whatever I thought four years ago, and…
Researcher 1: Mmm.
Ana: …the issues that I was interested in, are very different from this, from the things I'm interested [in] now. So, I am, I am kind of focusing in a totally different way. At first, I said, “Okay, maybe I can use the same analysis that I did”. No. I can't. I'm somewhere else. But, then I extracted some conclusions, and now I'm extracting new conclusions. So it's great, because I'm reusing, I am reusing open data. Yeah.
Researcher 1: Yeah, that's great.
Ana:  …that was available.
Researcher 1: And yeah, and this is linked to my next question. How likely is that you [would] use data generated - qualitative data generated by others? Obviously, you know, on an open access basis as a secondary data set, or have you used other people’s data already?
Ana: I haven't used other people’s other people data. I have to say that I am not aware, for example, there are two other researchers that touch similar 
Researcher 1: Hmm.
Ana: …but these people don't have, their, their interviews published, so…
Researcher 1:  Okay. So you having fun…
Ana: No. and I, but I think it's, it's good. I mean it's, it's
Researcher 1: You would do it.
Ana: Better. sure…
Researcher 1: You would use. Oh, that's…
Ana: …I would do it, and, I would as a secondary data of course. It's like, it will, it will, it helps you shape better your own questions, right? Doesn't matter that, then, you don't do primary data, but I think it's the same as - I mean to me, even it would be more interesting because there are certain situations where, okay, someone has made an interpretation of these, and then they have come to their own conclusions. But Looking at what people said in that moment, and towards those questions could help you to shape better, your own interview And also helps you to track, you know? Like if,…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …if all the interviews that have been done to the platform, and affect others, and in particularthere are hundreds of researchers that have gone  and that they have done the research on the path, if all of these would be available - you can do a - set this only on that, because you could see how these courses are changing. How, maybe, if you ask these people who have been there for 10 years, or you ask this [to] other people who have just a right, totally different, what are the differences of the, I don't know, people that are more national-based in relation with the people that are immigrants. I mean, you, we will have hundreds, hundreds of interviews [on] one issue. Yeah, it would be amazing.
Researcher 1: Yeah, perfect, thank you. And what, do you have any awareness or…
Ana: …but,
Researcher 1: …of around existing guidance or resources for making qualitative data open access, it can be broadly or in the university.
Ana: I checked UKRI, so I checked the University, I checked the ESRC, and I checked UKRI guidelines, and then I checked the FAIR project, and…
Researcher 1: Yeah, FAIR principles…
Ana: …I have done a workshop organised by the library, two workshops organised by the library, and…
Researcher 1: You have?
Ana: …open source. One was amazing, and I did an in-person one, super-good. I don't know you were there, but I think that one, I don't think that was until - you're not sure. Yes, I see grantees, but they were very good. So, I think that there are some out there.
Researcher 1: Okay, and what, do you think it would be useful, or needed for you - making your own research data open access?
Ana: For me, specific to me, you mean? Like, I am doing it, but this is really an effort.
Researcher 1:  Yeah. Yeah.
Ana: To do it better, specific time. Yeah. yeah,…
Researcher 1: Time. Perfect.
Ana: I mean, like, it could also be, like, the same way that, for example, there are grants to - whatever - you know, that is three months grant to go and do an overse institutional visit, for example, or there is this other grant in the school of architecture where you can go and make a trip, and there should be grants for making up, like, really, like, we are going to give you one extra month, two extra months of your grant, where, you know, it's, I don't know - after you submit. You have two months paid the same way that there are also grants, no? Writing grants.
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Ana: The same way, the same way I, like, put it there. Say, if you are going to do these, you get one month, two months, you get support. You can, you know, have people that edit the transcripts. You can have some people that help you to organize your metadata. You have to put resources honestly.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: Like there's a machine. We are against the clock. We are doing too much with too little, all the time. If you want this to succeed in qualitative data - in quantitative I think it's different honestly, quantitative guys got your data, and put it out there. But with qualitative, it needs an extra, it's extra work. And this has to be in…
Researcher 1:  Yeah, it is.
Ana: …until it is integrated, and then it's part of it, and then you do, everybody will integrate it naturally, because it would be like one part of the thing that, yeah, you do. But there is also, like, extra funding to do fieldwork work. If you want to go and…
Researcher 1:  Yeah. Mmm. Yeah.
Ana: …do fieldwork, right, you have extra funds then, so how does it come - that is extra funding for doing field work. That is extra funding for going on research visits, or institutional visits. That is extra funding for writing. But there is not extra funding for open source. Should be. Should be extra.
Researcher 1: Yeah, I agree.
Ana:  Clear?
Researcher 1: And like, this, we only having two more questions to go. And so…
Ana:  Okay.
Researcher 1: how did you, what, how is the workflow - from, to generate open qualitative research from planning the project to the data repository? Like how was it for you, or how is it for you? Okay. so,
Ana: Um, I haven't done this yet. So I would say, well it would be a question of - again, it will be useful to have more kind of clear guidelines, I think, that “Okay, my data will go again, my data goes to the repository of the University”, but then is there, how do I like, how is this related to other qualitative data? My interviews are going to be in Spanish. Most of them. What do I do? Do I do the hashtag in Spanish? I guess. So, so yeah. There is like, you know, how people are going to find these, how they're going to know all that? For me. It's not very clear. Together with the metadata...
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Ana: …and as I said…
Researcher 1: Yeah. And do you know, how is the workflow involved when using an existing open qualitative research data set as a secondary and a secondary basis? Like, how would you, okay? Perfect. Well that was my last question Ana.
Ana: Okay. Thank you.
Researcher 1: Thank you very much. I'm just going to give you a brief, very brief, You have a little like three minutes, so I can give you, like a brief summary of, like, the key messages that I'm taking with me right now…
Ana:  Yeah, sure.
Researcher 1: …on my mind.
Ana:  Okay. Okay. So back
Researcher 1: Don't worry, but we'll do the analysis on the transcription not online.
Ana:  Okay.
Researcher 1: So. Well, you mentioned that, well, working with qualitative data is more complicated, and because the interpretation of the day is not straightforward, so you have to explain and and more details. Well, when you want to make it open on, like, have to explain more details of how you're thinking process,…
Ana:  Exactly.
Researcher 1: …and then this process and why you interpreted things in a different way. And also, you have to explain the background of when you were doing, well, not that - the collection, but the production of knowledge. And, well, you said, Well, you're, you have a lot of experience in open and research and so, and so you are supportive of the principles of collaboration of creation and collective creation of knowledge. And I found that very…
Ana: …that would be the other way around. I have a lot of, I have a lot of experience on co-production and collaborative production, and…
Researcher 1: Okay.
Ana: …that's why I support the principles of open science. I don't,…
Researcher 1:  Okay.
Ana: …I don't have a lot of experience doing open science. I have a lot of experience within co-production and…
Researcher 1: Co-production.
Ana: …in Copyleft culture, which is different…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: …it's not exactly open science, but yeah, that is, it's correct. But maybe just the terms, and
Researcher 1:  Yeah. Okay, thank you for correcting me. So you said that now, let's just, not built by a specific person, but it is shaped by others, and our interpretation of that knowledge is what makes it a well, new knowledge. And so, you mentioned that for your project, you decided to be open from the beginning, and you are using the open source framework. And we're also designed open science, Yeah.
Ana: Open science, open science frameworks. I can, I can send you, I can send you the brand. It's called OSF. I don't know. You know, it, it's cool. I mean, it's more for quantitative than qualitative, but I'm trying to use it to include the difference…
Researcher 1: Okay. I thank you very much.
Ana: …but I will send it to you.
Researcher 1: Yes. So you're using that, and you're re-using some of the resources that are already there, like applications, and while you're consulting…
Ana: No, I'm not reusing, I am uploading so that people can produce it.
Researcher 1: Ah, putting it on, okay.
Ana: Yeah, I am uploading my own. Yeah. So,…
Researcher 1: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Ana: …so people can touch it. Yeah.
Researcher 1:  Okay, perfect, thank you for the clarification. So you're uploaded your applications, your grants, the structure of your thesis to be more transparent, about your research project, your - and you will upload your data in, or the, so, and you mentioned also like the barriers in making qualitative data open access, is that, it is a lot of extra work, and it requires specific time and resources, and just to like, just to work and transcribe and edit the interview, but also like, to do the metadata that's reaching off to provide that clear context of what was going on, when you did the data gathering, and in an enabling factors, you can see that that should be like a specific work packages or funding, and resources to do to make qualitative data open, and that we also need a framework to follow some type of protocol, that guidance and to know how to do this process more clearly. And, and, also that we need, maybe some sort of resource to see where the, where the data sets are available and according to the discipline or theme and where they are located in different repositories, to find these research. You mentioned…
Ana: Hmm.
Researcher 1: Well, in terms of ethics, whether there's like this tension with the university’s requirement about copyrights, and so, but in terms of your permission, well in terms of your research participants, you explain, well you ask for their consent to use their data to produce your thesis and your publications. You also mentioned, well you also mentioned them about pseudonymised, but that because some of they are actors that are like major public figures, that even with a pseudonym they could be identified, but you explain this to your participants and just playing about - the Creative Commons license, and you ask them for consent for their data - that to be reused, and, and also, well, in terms of the challenges you mentioned that also that there's not a guidance of how to make your data open access.
Ana: No, I think there are, but…
Researcher 1: Okay. But you mentioned, like, when you're like when you're proposing the ethics, that there's not like, noone, like, not like the confirmation review that nobody asks you…
Ana: …then there are guidance.
Researcher 1: …how you're going to do about it. So it is gone?
Ana: Yeah, so I think that If you go and…
Researcher 1: It comes because…
Ana: …look for it, there are all these, I told you there are …
Researcher 1: Yes.
Ana: …the ESRC, the UK research and innovation, they all have like these explanations…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Ana: …but these, it’s like, out - is detached from your own process. So there…
Researcher 1:  Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Ana: …there are, there [is] information, but this information is not incorporated in the process of the PhD.
Researcher 1:  But this.
Ana: It is…
Researcher 1: Oh yeah, okay. Yeah.
Ana: Yeah. So there is that, out there, but it's not…
Researcher 1: Yeah, it's not, make, it's not made part of the programme - of the PhD program.
Ana:  …it's not made part of the process.
Researcher 1: Hmm. Yeah. And well, you think that, well, that you're doing your data open access because you want to contribute to the larger community to the academic community and also you want it to be useful for your research participants and…
Ana:  Yeah.
Researcher 1: …you hope that that the knowledge you extracted is useful for them in the future. And also, when you think that there's a good practice to reuse data, that of others, like, and to interpret and, like, data that was generated in the past by others within your own life, according to the current situation and with different focuses. And yeah, you mentioned that there's these resources  the University, the ESRC, the FAIR principles, and workshops, and you think that you know, like to make data open as well. Like you said, you we need time grants and resources and they should be like, grants the specifically for making data open access as
Researcher 1: …as well as they're grant writing ones. That it should be run for open access, and so that's basically, I think what I'm having [on] the top of my mind. I don't know…
Ana: Okay.
Researcher 1: …if you want to correct something?
Ana:  No. It's fine.
Researcher 1: Okay. Do you have any questions or concerns?
Ana:  No.
Researcher 1: Okay, so well, like I told you, like, we'll have a stakeholders worship later in July, so I'll send you the information once I have the details, and are you still happy with the consent?
Ana:  Again?
Researcher 1: …you gave at the start of the interview. And would you like to be pseudonymised or…
Ana:  This?
Researcher 1: …directly name in the outputs?
Ana:  I can be directly named.
Researcher 1: You want to be named, directly named?
Ana:  Yeah.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. So that's it for me. And so I'll stop recording and…
Ana:  Okay. Well.