21-Apr-2023 - 10:33 - 43m07s - Pseudonym
Researcher 1: Perfect. So can you tell me a little bit about your field of research and the typical research methods you used together and then that data
Jessica: Okay. I am a very recent PhD. I got my PhD last year and I spent seven years - should have been six - but I spent seven years doing a part-time PhD on top of my full-time job which is - an e-learning lecturer in the medical school at Newcastle in the graduate school. I only teach our Master's students. Originally, I was employed to put courses online. That was how I started, but I ended up teaching some of them - that course in ageing. My background is, I'm a vet. Um, and I was in practice for an awful lot of years and this is definitely less physical, shall we say? I don't think my back would have let me carry on much longer in general practice. Anyway, um, my research was entirely into education, So I went from being a social - that is a scientist to being a social scientist. Um, researching how students learn online, how we can help them, but also how we can help staff and all this started before covid. And of course, all staff are now expected to be experts at teaching online and instantly. In actual fact, they're not the experts they would like to think they are, but they know a lot more than they used to, shall we say. But yeah, that was my research - entirely qualitative methods. Um, why did I do that? Because I started off totally positivist, but my main supervisor said, look, come on, this lends itself to qualitative research. So in the seven years I did it by publication. By the way, I didn't write [a] thesis. I had to publish five papers. I've done it all with qualitative ethnography, phenomenology and then just some basic thematic analysis, and all that has now left me - as because I did that in the humanities faculty - the wasn't actually anybody in the graduate school of the medical school who did qualitative research in any major way. So I have now become the expert on qualitative research in the medical school, graduate school. So does that cover of all…
Researcher 1:  Oh wow.
Jessica: ..what you wanted to know?
Researcher 1: Yes, no, is very, very well thank you. And to analyze your data, did you use a specific type of tool or software?
Jessica: Yeah, I used Nvivo.
Researcher 1:  …and we will, and besides, well,
Jessica:  I also used, I also did paper-based for my phenomenological study.
Researcher 1:  Okay. And do you rely on any specific? Analytical theoretical framework besides phenomenology and thematic analysis.
Jessica: Oh, the series behind. Oh, Well, I started off with Foucault. Um, then I went on more to activity theory. Um, and relational agency. And I finished off. I haven't published, but I finished off with, because, I had to write a narrative that linked to all my papers and With dialogic, self theory.
Researcher 1:  Mmm. Okay.
Jessica:  Oh and I threw in a bit of communities of practice as well somewhere along the way.
Researcher 1:  Okay, perfect. Thank you very much. And how would you say it has… how would you describe your experience working with qualitative data in your usual research.
Jessica:  Initially, it was terrifying.
Jessica:  But I soon got used to it, and actually, I, although I'm newer [to] it, I would much rather work with words than numbers, despite being - calling myself - a scientist. I still think of myself as a scientist, and my next work is a systematic review, but I still, I do love qualitative research. I like, I liked, I like, trying to make sense out of people's perceptions. I think the paper I was most proud of was the phenomenological study, because it was my interpretation of what people said rather than just putting people's words under an umbrella in thematic analysis. But I was certainly terrified to start with, but after a while, I got used to it. I got, you get to, well I guess if you've done it too, you get to learn the transcripts off by heart, so towards the end of your analysis, you do get fed up with it, but overall, once I got used to it, I quite enjoyed it.
Researcher 1: Yes. No, I understand too, because I was before academia, I was a marketing researcher and I was doing mostly quantitative research and…
Jessica: Yeah.
Researcher 1: …and my PhD was merely qualitative. So for me was also challenging too
Jessica:  Yeah, it's a real jump isn’t it, to get from the quantitative? I mean, I haven't done any quantitative studies, but I read so much. To get from that to qualitative is, it's a big jump? Yeah.
Researcher 1:  Yeah, this, it is, it is a scary jump. And what is your opinion or perception of open research, and have you practised it too?
Jessica: Well, I've sort of practised it. Um, some of the journals that I submitted to, and I can't remember if it's true of the ones that I actually published in required, um, publication of the data set. And actually, when I didn't question it, I just did it, and it was only thinking about it afterwards [that] I thought, this has, this has huge implications. I mean, it's great. I think all data sets that would be made public, but I should have thought more about the ethics of it. So no exception is, I didn't know enough about it. I think that I do think it's a really good idea, and I can't remember if any of the papers have actually got links. I used Mendeley Data.
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Jessica:  So that's, that's where they're put. Um, and even if I didn't actually get published in the papers that [undecipherable] in the journals, that required, that - that's my datasets are still out there. So I am pleased they're still out there, but there was nothing I guess, this might inform some of you, it might be you [get] questions later on. I think it depends on the data. How careful you've got to be, because none of mine was really sensitive. I mean, people did make sensitive comments to me when I was interviewing them, but it actually didn't have direct relevance to my research. So I maybe did, I remember leaving off the transcripts. I left off the last ten minutes of one interview because basically she was pouring out her soul about how dreadful the department was, and it didn't really have relevance to my research, and I didn't want people to see that sort of thing. So I didn't have anything really sensitive. Had I interviewed a bunch of people? For instance, in [a] healthcare study about some really sensitive topics I would still want to publish it, but I would, I would go through it to make sure. So well, that there was absolutely no identification available. Because I mean, when I publish a paper talking about a graduate school and I'm a lecturer in a graduate school, people can put two and two together and they could probably identify my interviews if they were staff. They certainly couldn't put, they certainly couldn't work out who the students were, that I interviewed, but staff maybe. But there was nothing sensitive I would have with, for the ethics of it, I would have made sure that if I had had sensitive topics, And I was publishing my data sets, I would have gone about it much more secondly and made sure that they were entirely anonymous that, nobody anywhere could work out who was talking
Researcher 1: Yeah. So in, overall, you, your perception on opinion of making qualitative data open access in general and…
Jessica: Yes, I [am] positive about it.
Researcher 1: …in your own research is it? It is. Yes that…
Jessica: Yes. And I certainly would do it again with my own data sets.
Researcher 1: Perfect. Thank you and you and have any opinion, what do you have - any perceived barriers or challenges that prevent us researchers, qualitative researchers, to make data open access?
Jessica: If they use paper-based systems, the phenomenological study, that one? That, I didn't publish my data. It was a little bits of paper, all random. Um, why did I not use anything though? It's because it just seemed easier to write things in columns, and it just seemed easier. So if you use, if you don't use the technology, it's pretty hard. I suppose you could photocopy everything, but really my handwriting, nobody wants to read that, you know! I would say that would certainly be a barrier. Um, another barrier is When I? Gained consent from my participants. They knew that I would be publishing but they thought I would be publishing in a paper that's what I told them and that's what I expected. I wonder if they would still have given consent if I'd said, Oh, and I'm going to publish my entire dataset. I, Think probably because it, they weren't totally sensitive topics. They would still have given consent, but I don't know that every participant for every study. Would want every word they said out there.
Researcher 1: Yeah. and…
Jessica:  Yeah.
Researcher 1: …so, um, barriers is, well, having data that is not a digital and I also the concept participant content and and you consider that if there are any enabling factors that a promote or foster and making qualitative data open access,
Jessica: Any what factors? Sorry. Are we, like, to make them?
Researcher 1:  Enabling. Yes.
Jessica: Well certainly, if you get, I was self-funded for my PhD, but if you get a grant, they'll tell you to probably - or at least - I don't know if they do, but never having had a grant for qualitative research, and that if, if the Research Council said “you will publish your data set as well as your findings”, that would certainly enable, um, the - I didn't know that you could publish data sets in quite the way that, I had to Google it when I found out one of the [undecipherable] journals said, You know, you're gonna have to publish your data set. I use Mendeley rather than, which the University loves. I just started with Mendeley because it was free now, and is free for stuff. But, um, I like Mendeley, which is why I went with Mendeley data, but I didn't know about it until the journal said you have to publish, so education on the fact that these things are available, would be good enablers.
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Researcher 1:  You [have] already discussed this a little bit, but I would like you to expand on the ethics, and your ethics of making your data open access in terms of protecting participants and gaining ethical approval.
Jessica: Yeah. Oh I could, I could see that if you did a covert ethnography, making the entire data set available, that I don't think that would be ethical. I think other studies would be a barrier to having open access. For my ethnography, wasn't covert, it, everybody in the office knew about it. It was a collaborative self-ethnography, so we all gathered data, but it was only me that did anything with it - and wrote the paper. Um, we interacted with people though, that didn't know about it, and if I wanted to take one of their comments - I went to them, I emailed them, and said “Please can we, can I use this in a publication?” And invariably they said yes but, if it had been a sensitive topic, I would have felt. It was unethical to record - even record what they were saying. Um, in a way, that I would. Put it in the data set to stand out. I mean, of course I'd write field notes on it. Um, but yeah, I really don't like the idea of covert studies when nobody's given permission. You know, going out as open access but ethically, otherwise, um, if it becomes the norm that I publish all my data sets, I would put that in the consent form and I would explain what it involves, that I would maintain anonymity and do that really carefully? I mean, I use food, and it was for my Phenomenological study, where the data set didn't get published. But had I had publish it, I guess they, that's the one that people could have worked out who was who from what I said about the people's history. So I think the ethics of it is, you've got to be a lot more careful if the whole data set is going out, and I would feel it was ethical to make sure the participants knew that it would be published.
Researcher 1: Excuse me. I thank you very much. Sorry, I have a very [indecipherable].
Jessica:  No, don't worry if…
Researcher 1: ….um, and in terms of your epistemic function, how do you feel about making qualitative data, open access? Do you think there's attention there?
Jessica: I think probably. Yes and no. Um,
Jessica:  Interpretivist research are very different from, you know, the data set you, that the quantitative data set that you publish that anybody can go and use. Being an interpreter to this. That. means that more of myself is, goes into, my, my analysis. It doesn't worry me if other people look at that. but, At the same time. It might worry me what would they do with that. It's one thing that I don't remember about Mendleye data, and I don't know about any other form of open access databases. Can you set it that you can say things like ‘no derivatives’, so people can't change things. Um, I don't like the idea of other people's words being out there, and then being changed to suit…
Researcher 1: but,
Jessica: …somebody's, possibly, unethical, or even nefarious purposes, those things. Yes, they sort of worry me. I mean,…
Researcher 1: So, you mean,
Jessica: I'm not. I'm not so naive that I think that oh I can just put it out there and it'll all be fine. It probably will be because it's education and it's nothing, um, nothing sensitive. But if something sensitive went out there, um, for instance, if I was interviewing an elite or if I was interviewing people that were breaking the law, would I want to put that out there in case somebody used it for a purpose that the participants really wouldn't like? I think I would be very careful with sensitive data, I don't, I don't think that everybody should publish all their data sets with just a bit of anonymity. I think this, things that probably should stay between the researcher and their participant.
Researcher 1: Yeah. So you mean it, so you mean that you your biggest concern would be like, how other people interpret the data, and…
Jessica:  …Oh, they'll interpret the data and what they did with that interpretation.
Researcher 1: Yeah, perfect. Thank you. and well, you already mentioned this, but how likely is that you make your own qualitative data open access and why?
Jessica:  Um, no, I know that you can, having been, you know, pushed into it by the journals as long as I was continuing to do education research. Um, I would put it, put it out there. So I wouldn't mind if people looked at it. Finding the time to actually write the paper is hard, and if you don't get round to it, but if, say, you went to a conference and you talked to a speaker, or you were a speaker, you could always say - and the research I did, you will find at Um, it's not peer-review. But here is a data set that you can see what people thought. And from my analysis, what I thought. um, so yeah, I would continue to do so unless somebody gave me a topic they wanted research that was very highly sensitive and then I would really think twice about it.
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Researcher 1:  How likely is [it] that you would use qualitative data generated by other researchers on an open access basis as a secondary data set?
Jessica: Yeah, I would quite likely look at it, but the thing is finding it. How do you see [undecipherble] I have absolutely no idea.
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Jessica:  I've never tried searching the Mendeley data. Oh, for, has anyone else done this about education?
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Jessica: So I haven't a clue how to get to it, but if I got to it, I would certainly look at it. Um, I'm, I'm assuming that all this published data - because certainly, the Mendeley people would be able to get in touch with me. I should be able to get in touch with whoever published the data set. But yes, it's actually getting hold of it. Finding it, that I wouldn't have a clue how to go about. Somebody would have to tell me how to do that. I mean…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Jessica: ResearchGate, I can probably publish datasets on ResearchGate.
Researcher 1: I think so. Yeah. I mean there.
Jessica: All right…So that would be a good source. Yeah.
Researcher 1: I'm not sure but I, Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there are, like, many data repositories, and some [are] very, like, specialized on different disciplines.
Jessica:  Yeah.
Researcher 1: …and there's always, like, the universities repositories, and yeah, so there are different
Jessica:  Yeah. I, I have never put my data set anywhere in the University’s depositories other than, I mean, my final thesis. Well, my papers plus [the] narrative that's in there, but I haven't put any of my data sets anywhere in [undecipherable]. I guess as a PhD student, I own my data. I'm about to well, I'm in the process of writing two papers at the minute.
Jessica:  Which, because I am employed by the University, they will own.
Researcher 1: Did it?
Jessica:  I guess, I ought to ask somebody - is that somewhere that I [am] meant to put it, so that - and can it be open access?
Researcher 1: Yeah. Yeah, never sound, like, the ,like, find details now in doing research with a University, like with University funding.
Jessica: Well, or even if they're not funding it, but I'm still employed by them.
Researcher 1: Mmm. Yeah.
Jessica: Now, I'm no longer a student, the postgraduate student where you do own your own work. The university owns what I produce, s o yes,…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Jessica: The other thing is, I don't know what the university's policy [is] on providing qualitative data as Open Access. There's an awful lot of university policy that if you try and find it, it's pretty much impossible. I don't know what Sheffield is like. But certainly with us trying to trench through all the policies and things to find what you're looking for. Very often you don't find it.
Researcher 1: yeah, yeah, well I guess when I really, my case, when I started my PhD open access was not very And that's not well I don't want to say trending…
Jessica: It. Yeah.
Researcher 1: …but it wasn't promoted as much or it was fairly known at least. I am a geographer.
Jessica:  Okay.
Researcher 1: …so I, I always consider from the beginning to be like to close all the data and…
Jessica:  Yes.
Researcher 1: …protect the participants and and now that I know more about it, I wonder, like, if that was the correct choice because they all wanted to, I mean, I never asked for consent of publishing their data but they didn't even
Researcher 1: Where they weren't worried about anonymity issues because the topic wasn't sensitive and also I believe like that data is now. Were confined to what I do with it. And and…
Jessica: Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Researcher 1: …if, and it's very rich, you know, there's a lot of things that can be, like, analyzed from that. And I would love to see what other researchers I am and think about it or what other conclusions come from that data, but it's completely closed. But now I think the library services, the library librarians are the ones that are promoting more about these open research. So they are…
Jessica: Really. Yeah.
Researcher 1: I think from the beginning, to page the students or when they talk about data management plans, they make people consider about these. And so, I, from the interviews, I've been making, I see that it's more, and it's becoming more - not popular - but more usual among like maybe PhD researchers, and also, like, more consolidated researchers, but they, but there's like, and this, there's more people know, more people know about it, like from merely is start. So, I guess the University, like, the library should be able to help you more. Here is, like, they well, I see them at least the University library in Sheffield is making a lot of effort in Open Research but I don't know…
Jessica: All right.
Researcher 1: …if it's because, I mean that I am more, like, aware of that, those efforts, because I am involved in this project about open, so I, I, my perception might be biased.
Jessica:  Yeah.
Jessica:  Are you in the geography department?
Researcher 1:  Right now, I am in the faculty of Social science but my PhD was in geography. Yeah.
Jessica:  All right, right now it's just a friend of mine. I think she's in the geography department. I'm not sure that she'll feel [name redacted].
Researcher 1:  I don't, I don't, I don't think I know [that person].
Jessica: She's a, she's a research associate, I think. But I'm not sure if she's in the geography department…
Researcher 1: oh,
Jessica: …but that's what she was doing here. She was, she was my neighbor at home in [redacted]
Researcher 1: Mmm. Ah that's nice. No, well, if I if I hear about her again, I will Yes,…
Jessica:  Say “hi” to her for me.
Researcher 1: …of course. Yeah. And well now well, do you know? Well, now you [have] talked a little bit about this, but did you know, or have any awareness of existing guidance of resources for making qualitative data open access?
Jessica: Absolutely not. No. I, I, just picked Mendeley  and, and just followed their instructions. I had absolutely no guidance on that you should do this before you do that, and no, it…
Jessica:  I don't think it. I'm sure, it wasn't a problem. The fact that I did do it, but I think um, now, teaching qualitative research to students, I have read so much more about ethics and I think I would
Jessica:  I would put it in, certainly, put it into any consent form.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect, thank you. And what do you think would be useful or easily needed to make your own research data open access?
Jessica:  I would like to know more about where you can, where you can publish, how you can publish, you know, that, what Creative Commons license you can put on it.
Jessica:  I think if universities and if research councils are going to expect qualitative researchers to publish their data, they ought to have some decent guidance that is readily available.
Researcher 1:  Yeah. [indecipherable] some more.
Jessica: I can't think, I can't think of any other things that I would say, oh yeah.
Researcher 1:  And that's alright. And can you describe a little bit about how was the, like, the workflow, for you to make your data open and from planning the project to the data repository?
Jessica:  Oh, it was only when I came to submission for publication that it was like, “Oh publish it”, [and] published the data as well. And I had not thought about it along the way, I won't say, I didn't think people would be interested because that's the whole point of writing a paper, you're trying [to] interest people. It was more that I, it just didn't cross my mind. If I had known more about it, I would have been very keen. I would have put that in the original proposal.
Researcher 1: Yeah. And while you've already mentioned that, you don't know about how to, how the process of existing, of using existing open qualitative research data sets as a secondary basis. Like, and…
Jessica: Yeah. Oh I mean,…
Researcher 1: …yeah, like can you
Jessica: I assume you would get permission from them also, to look through their data and use it - the original research - to use their data. Um, I would have thought. It's not just polite, but it's ethical. To provide them with a proposal that I want to use this data for this study. And your data covers something else. But a subset of it would be very useful for something in particular, or your whole data set would add to mine. To look at some particular thing. but I think having the authors’ permission to actually go ahead and use it rather than just look at it, and think, oh well, I've collected something similar. And they were saying the same things.
Researcher 1: Yeah, I think that's a good, that will be a good practice.
Jessica: If, yeah, roses and just helping yourself. And the other thing is certainly, providing a citation that, you know, you have used someone else's dataset. I don't know - somebody else's work, you certainly should be saying where it came from?
Researcher 1: Yeah, yes. I agree. Well, that was my my last question and…
Jessica: All right.
Researcher 1: Thank you very much. Now I will, I will provide you with a brief summary of what the key things are. We’ll look at things you mentioned that I have on top of my mind. And so well you say that you were very keen in making and, and making qualitative research open access including opening the datasets, and…
Jessica:  In actual fact, I'm keen that all research is open and transparent. I mean, I know we're getting into the realms of difficulties when you start having patents and, and somebody's making their living out of it, but I still think the more research that is out there, that everybody can look at, it's really important.
Researcher 1: Yeah. You think it's important for transparency and yeah. Yeah,…
Jessica: Yeah, I do. I do.
Researcher 1: Yeah, no, I agree with you. Well. So what you're kind of making, like, research in general open access and also qualitative data. And you mentioned that you didn't have knowledge, like everyone, from the start of your research - and you became aware of open, of Mendeley, r the possibility of making the data sets open when you were to publish a paper. And, but you said that, that it would like making data open access, it depends on participants and the consent. And also then being very careful of not ideal, of making that data sets anonymous, and also if it's only - unless if it's not a sensitive topic - because you mentioned that some data sets should and or some types of data should remain between the researcher and and the participants. You mentioned what some of the barriers to making qualitative data open access is, and…
Jessica: Right.
Researcher 1: Well, if it's, if data is paper-based because it requires digitalization, also you mentioned that it depends on consent, and so participants’ need to know what they are agreeing [to], when they are consent[ing] - of making, when when you propose making the data sets open access - and also just mentioned that, if it's covered research then it shouldn't be open as enabling factors. You mentioned that if that, well, if these are requirements by research councils, then that would, um, foster more research, and making their data quality, then data open access. And also more education around open research is needed to promote it more,iIn terms of the ethics, it is the same. Like, you mentioned that if the topic was very sensitive, and there were ways of other people to identify the participants, and it wouldn't be ethical, but you will require well in terms of ethics. You would, you would [add] this in - from the beginning - in the consent forms? You would specify that as well. If they consent, you will ask them if they consent to make their data open access, and clarify what it means - and that you would like, anonymize that data. And in terms of the epistemics you mentioned that there's that, yes or no. Well, that is, there's a little bit of attention, but do you think you don't think that being an interpretivist researcher should preclude making data sets open access? But your worry is what people would do with that with what data. So that we need to have more information about putting like locks around data, so that the users of these data sets do not change what participants said, or what the data say. And so yeah, that's the worry - about how can other researchers misinterpret data, and, well, you mentioned, and I think related to these, you mentioned that - I think that, you think that it would be ethical to submit that proposal, or how you plan to use a like this data sets, to the researcher that collected the data - to have their permission. And so, it is like an ethical use of other people's data sets.And while you mentioned that, it, but the - what we need to make, to promote more [is] this open research movement is more information about where [to] publish data, how, and information about the licenses. And that, well, universities and research culture councils should provide more guidance around these. It's especially because they are requiring these now, more often and so, I don't know if I missed anything important.
Jessica:  Also sounds pretty much like what we talked [about] today.
Researcher 1:  Thank you very much. Do you have any questions or concerns?
Jessica:  No, no questions and no concerns.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. Well like I mentioned I will send you the transcript. It will probably be Google, will do, but I will send you the link to the transcription when I edit them, and when I, like, fix the transcription - not edit it, and…
Jessica: Yeah. Yeah. I know…
Researcher 1: …so you can, yeah,…
Jessica: …what you…
Researcher 1: …so you can review it, and also edit something - if you don't if you feel like you want to edit something. And we will have a stakeholder workshop later. I don't have the details yet, but if you are interested in participating once we finalize the details, I can send them to you, to see if you're available and…
Jessica:  Okay.
Researcher 1: …perfect, and I just feel happy with the content you gave at the start of the interview.
Jessica:  Yeah, yeah. Absolutely fine.
Researcher 1:  Perfect, would you prefer to be pseudonymised or directly named in the outputs?
Jessica:  It would do, I want, sorry?
Researcher 1: If you would prefer to be pseudonymised, you know, use - if I, if you want me to…so don't even or…
Jessica:  Oh!
Researcher 1: …you want to be named directly,
Jessica: I don't mind. Um, do what you're doing with most people sort of thing?
Researcher 1: Okay, I don't even…
Researcher 1: If most people are required.
Jessica: Yes. Yeah.
Researcher 1:  Yeah, that's all for me. I will stop recording now.
Jessica:  Okay.