03-May-2023 - 15:06 - 45m30s - Pseudonym
Researcher 1: So, I'm going to start by asking you to tell me a little bit about your field of research, and what are the typical research methods you're using for gathering data?
Robert: Hmm. Okay, so basically, what I do in my work, is, I'm, so I'm doing a PhD and I'm a second year, PhD student. And basically, what I do my work is, I work in a series of different perspectives on the relation between identity and politics. And currently I'm doing a case study - comparative case, study - of Spain and Portugal. So I'm doing a lot of qualitative data and graphic interviews, and so on, and I will use quantitative data for part of the thesis, so it's a real mix of methods.
Researcher 1: Mixed-methods, right, and what methods do you use or you plan to use for analysing your data and which tools or software might you use?
Robert:  Okay. So I guess you're more interested in the qualitative part.
Researcher 1:  You can tell me about both, it's fine.
Robert:  Okay. Well, the quantitative part basically uses FCA, and the qualitative part, so what I'm basically doing is, that the main trunk of data is just interviews, personal interviews with, with discontentences to see, basically trying to understand how their constructions have identity, explain the different ways of political mobilization. And I just planned the analytic phase, is not very defined at the moment, but basically I'm planning to do, I'm definitely going to use Nvivo because it's the thing I'm Familiar with, and then comfortable with, and I'm thinking of various phases where I just on the one hand, because theory building and theory testing. So, I guess, I'm, I'm thinking of something that is first inductive and then goes through [an] iterative round focussing on static, but also causal analysis. But yeah,…
Researcher 1: Okay, but That's fine.
Robert: …that's not very defined at the moment.
Researcher 1: Thank you for, for that. And are you drawing into a specific analytical framework or at a specific theoretical framework and for this or not? It's not justified.
Robert:  I am. So the project is a very strong theoretical orientation, which is Grampian, trying to focus on a different way of understanding the ratio between identity and politics. That focuses on, on the everyday is lived experience on the analysis of common sense and how common sense builds identities and what is considered possible or not possible or politically viable or viable. So that, that's, that's the broad frame, and working on that and, and ethnographic immersion, focussing on the data.
Researcher 1:  Okay, perfect. And how would you describe your experience of working with qualitative data in your usual research?
Robert: Okay, so the experience I have is, I have done qualitative. I've used qualitative methods before when I worked in a policy centre. I've used qualitative methods before when I did my master's dissertation, and when I worked as research assistant and I am using them now, so it's not a lot of experience obviously, but it's what I'm most experienced in.
Robert: Sorry, the question was specifically..?
Researcher 1: Yes this area, your experience. How is your experience working with qualitative data? I mean, maybe now that you have like experience using quantitative…
Robert:  …as in good or bad, or what kind specifically of qualitative data I use?
Researcher 1: …or yeah like what is
Researcher 1: …And no, I mean, like, yeah, I mean, maybe, like, if you want to go and talk about, like, what type of qualitative data [I am] using, but even, like, now that you're using quantitative data, maybe you can draw like a comparison, like, but how would you, this says your experience working with qualitative data? Like it allows you to research specific things, or you find some challenges in using it. Like, how would you define..?
Robert:  Okay, I'd say, it's always been my focus, because it touches it for my substantive interest which is discourse and the lived experience, and the actual carrying discourse, and because it isn't methodologies that I enjoy, I guess. So, it's always been kind of the match between what I enjoy, what I'm good at, and topics I'm interested. Um, I'd say, I have used different fieldwork methods. I've been, I've done focus groups, I've done interviews, I've done a bit of ethnographic, but currently I'm specializing on interviews. In the interviews, and tackling sensitive topics and sensitive samples. That's what I enjoy. That's what I'm focusing on. I basically also have Focus on qualitative methods, we get, I think they're richer in the way they let you engage with certain theoretical debates that are complex, that you can never, you can, you cannot outreach in the same way by using quantitative data.
Researcher 1: Perfect, thank you.
Robert:  I don't know that answers the question. Okay. Okay.
Researcher 1: Yeah. That's, that's very useful. Thank you very much. And what is your perception of open research or opinion about open research?
Robert:  Um, So as I was saying it, I don't have much of an opinion basically, because, it's, it's not something that I've experienced, though, it is never a question in the work I've done. It did become a question when I was starting to plan my qualitative fieldwork for my PhD, and at that moment I did my ethics review, and my department, my data management plan, and doing the data management plan. I did discuss the issues, of course. There's different ways of calling it, isn't there, but I think at the time, we were talking about, yeah, I can't remember the term, but there was different term, but we basically talking about the same thing, and archiving we talked about archiving, there once, and I talked to librarian that specialized in [the] research sector because she was, she was encouraging me to integrate the possibility of archiving data, and making it open access for publications once I start publishing results. I decided not to follow her advice after discussing [it] with a few people, for a variety of reasons, and is that interesting for the, I don't want to ramble [on] with that…
Researcher 1: Yeah. No, a, very, no…
Robert: Okay. So and…
Researcher 1: It's very interesting. Yeah.
Robert: …actually talked back to these people because, I was like, since I'm gonna do this, you want to be sure, you know what the reasons were, in that, when I was deciding about this, because I didn't really remember that much. But basically, what happened is this woman was like, you know, it's kind of, you know, the progress of science, and making it more open and whatever. And, you know, I would say to methods, I'd read a lot of quantitative stuff. I'm used to quantitative data being open too, code being open and publicly available. So it did sound like a reasonable idea, but I decided not to go that way for variety of reasons. First because I don't use consent forms, I use verbal consent - because of the kind of people I'm interviewing, or the kind of contexts I'm going to. It is hard to convince people that they should sign something for someone that they don't know. I, also because I don't think that signing a consent form actually makes the research any more ethical, or so, that person. So, I'm no big fan of consent forms, and if they started considering archiving, then I would have had to do a consent form with the variety of boxes, because you can't just, you know, it's not that simple anymore. And even if I [had] done a consent form, I decided, I wouldn't want to propose archiving because I think because I know from experience that people are very, they're very reliant on you as a person they trust. And the person they like, and when, when they disclose, when they participate, and when they accept participating, and I can imagine that the idea of being like - because what am I, one of my winning tropes, so to say, to convince people to participate, and to be honest in the interview - because you can substantively affect the data, it's just being like, you know, it's just me seeing this. It's just, and, and that gives people a lot of confidence. And I think, even if I was okay with the consent forms, which I'm not, if I had to introduce the archiving option, there would be two problems. The first one is, I would have to explain something that is complex to people. And they wouldn't really understand the way we understand that within the profession, it might be something good. It's very hard to come across as something approachable, something understandable, and the second thing is, I just think that it would affect the quality of the data or it would just affect that, the recruitment. I do imagine a lot of people being like, you know, even if you anonymize the data, being uncomfortable. The idea that whatever they say is just going to be archived, that people can access. So yeah, that was more or less that the, the reasoning behind me, saying actually, no, I'm not going to go through archiving. I think, I think it's not the safest option.
Researcher 1: Not the safest for the participants.
Robert:  No. Sorry. I mean, I mean, not the safest for the, for the, for the research.
Researcher 1:  Okay. But there is…
Robert:  Yeah, but because participants wouldn't feel safe, of course, but yeah.
Researcher 1:  Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's a very interesting point. And, well, okay, so for your - and research here, I mean you decided not to go for to make it open access but in general, have you ever used any open access data set? Or have you practised open access somehow in research?
Robert: Uh, no, I have used [it] for quantitative work, I do use code and whatever as I was saying, I think it's something fantastic. And, and that's becoming very very mainstream. Although it's very different, but I'm, yeah, that's my own experience with open data, when [I] actually use other people's code, other people's - never used other people's data. Back certainly used other people's codes to do something, and I think it's important in quantitative terms,…
Researcher 1: Okay.
Robert: …for instance, because it helps people like me. You know, you don't, you don't particularly, you know, I'm not [a] massive expert in quantitative methods, and I have to struggle a lot to get to do properly, analysis. For instance, I'm gonna have to learn the method, and go through it and whatever, and it's really useful to have that kind of results. I don't think in qualitative methods, open data can have that sort of toolkit function. But yeah, that's something I think. Definitely is supposed to think about in quantitative methods,
Researcher 1: Yeah. And this is a very interesting point. No really! And so, well, you and, so well in your research plan you're saying, like, not making a lot now open access, but in general, how would you say about? Well, you say, oh, so in qualitative data it might not be useful, as it won't have, maybe would not have the same, like, utility as quantity like, using code from quantitative data or but in general, do you think it would make, and what is your perception of qualitative data open access?
Robert: As it, is it something good or bad?
Researcher 1:  Like your perception.
Robert: …as it, as I said, I did think about it, because I think intuitively it's something that is good and that is, that definitely in itself, something good, and useful. And I think of my own work, and I'm like this, there's so much work that I criticize because, in so many, because part a big part of my thesis is saying, you know, previous qualitative research is actually not. It's a bit of ramble, but basically, the point is, one of my main arguments is saying, a lot of qualitative research is basically about description and they, they are reaching. They are tapping into causal relations, but because they are scared, not scared, but like shunning of the idea of doing quite causal analysis, which is something we associate with quantitative analysis, they don't, they don't have the capacity to leverage the causal insight that there is in their data, which brings me to think obviously if, then, I had open access to that data, you know, some other people could come and be like, no, but actually, if we, if we put a different frame, a different light to the same data, we can actually see that. This is not just, you know, I'm describing how people see the world, where you're actually seeing how these descriptions shape certain behaviours, for instance, or how these ideas shape other ideas. So, intuitively. Yes, I'm saying. Sorry, this was a bit of ramble. Basically I do think it generates something good.
Researcher 1: That's okay.
Robert: Definitely, obviously, has to be something good and it's also something that from the perspective of the work I do, I can see that it could be useful when you engage with other research.
Researcher 1:  Okay, perfect. And thank you. And you see any or do you have any perceived barriers or challenges in making a qualitative data open access?
Robert: For many, for many particular perspective, or just in general?
Researcher 1: Um, in general, and from your perspective to women, like it is important?
Robert:  Well, I can see on the one hand, what happened to me is a key barrier. You know, the idea that you, that there's there's some samples, or even if irrespective of the sample, you know, it adds another barrier. So to recruitment, and to convincing people, and to guarantee that they get to a point where they're comfortable, and disclosing and honest. That, it's just very hard to say yes to, because I think intuitively, any person to win, collecting qualitative data will think that just making their life more, let's just making them, the life that [will] be harder. Um, so I think that's definitely [an] obstacle. It's a real obstacle. I don't think it's, I don't think it's, I think it's very evident you know explaining to people that you, they, because I've seen, it because you know that, well, nobody's gonna see this apart from you, is it? I'm like, no, and yeah, I, I worked in a, well I worked before. I was like, you know, you can be sure because the other people in the team don't even understand this language. So you know, you’re completely safe, you know. I'm just gonna see it myself and that's here. So, I do think there's that. I'd say that's the main thing then. I don't know, I guess there's a culture to it, of, because the data in quantitative terms, the data speaks for itself. And You know, I can't imagine that the rails, they could be over certain demographic datasets, so to say so, and then how people could endlessly go round and round and round in circles, discussing with that, with the data actually means, and actually is giving away. And you could say that's something good, of course. But on the other hand, there's always another principle of qualitative research, is that the data doesn't speak for itself? That you're also the person that's been in the field and understood contextually what was going on in that interaction? And what those words mean in that context, in that country, whatever. So, at the same time, you could be like, here, it'd be interesting to look, and so on. But then, there's always a very reasonable way of just defending oneself by saying, you know, I was there, and I, this is my interpretation, and it's better than any other because I was the one to collect the data, and see all that whatever. So, as is it definitely ethical, not sure. It's very productive in general.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. Thank you very much and you see, or do you see any enabling factors in making qualitative data, open access.
Robert: Mmm. As. Enabling for other people or enabling for people to make it open access.
Researcher 1: For making it open access. For researchers to make their data open access.
Robert:  Hmm.
Researcher 1: Are there any enabling factors that you could think about.
Robert: I mean. I have funding for instance, from a private foundation, and you know, they got these regulations on how you have to publish. And for instance, they force me to [have] public open access. Not, not the data, but the, the, the research out itself,…
Researcher 1:  The findings?
Robert: You know, so…
Robert:  …not as much as enabling. Maybe constraining. But yeah, the only constraining factor I could imagine, that could force people to move into [a] different culture is, you know? They, if funding, for instance, started to be strings attached on a basis of, you know, asking for open access data. Otherwise, I can't really think of any incentives besides, just the ethical feeling of, you know, being like, you know, want people to be able to see the data worked with
Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect, thank you.
Robert:  And it is also the whole thing about whether  it's open access in, anybody can access it or open access as in, you know, you have to ask it from me. Which I think both [are] happened right now, don't they? I'm not entirely sure, but I think both happened, and you know, it's also very different. I think it's very different situations.
Researcher 1:  So, would you be willing to share your data if it was requested from someone, Specifically to you.
Robert: If it works, if it works like that, I definitely [would] be more likely, I guess. I definitely [would] be more likely to make you open access, because I'd be like, you know, in the end I can control who accesses the data, and it gives you a certain control over thinking, like, you know, I don't, I want to make sure that I would feel more comfortable. That could make sure that every person that accesses it is somebody working in an educational institution, for instance, or something other. And not somebody related to always going on the field in a way that could harm respondents.
Researcher 1: Mmm.
Robert: For instance, I am, I'm also thinking from experience, because I interview, I've been in certain sites that are so, they're so small it is very easy for someone living there to to identify someone. If they transcript, it's almost impossible. To release a full transcript, and anonymise it to the point that you could actually retain the data without people in the same context, being able to identify the person that did the interview that you can control when you're just picking out some quotes and the anonymize those quotes, but I think it's completely impossible, if you just have to release the whole transcript, so, yeah, that's, yes. if access could be more controlled, I think, could be, it'd be something to think about.
Researcher 1: Okay. Yeah. well, this is sort of related to my next question, which is your ethics regarding making your data, your qualitative data open access in terms of protecting participants or gaining ethical approval. So, you're saying that, like, because of the context where you are researching, like, it would be very easy for someone to identify your participants, and if you release the transcriptions, do you have any other ethical concerns or did you when you apply for your ethics approval, where you were other? Did you take into account other concerns regarding ethics?
Robert: Besides the open access thing, I had no, the only thing was that I didn't want to use consent forms. I'm very strongly against the need for consent forms, so, and that meant I had to do some extra steps when getting my ethics review approved. But apart from that, no, I think it was quite straightforward. Yeah. Yeah,…
Researcher 1: Okay. Perfect.
Robert: I guess the only point where I had to deal with, in a bit, was actually just yet the librarian suggesting, you know you might want to think about the data archiving thing.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Okay, thanks. Well, you already mentioned these, but I will ask again. Now this is what we see, we haven't talked about this one sorry - and what about your epistemics in regards to making your data, quality your qualitative data open access, do you think there's attention? Between that, you’re maybe you consider yourself an interpretivist, or because you say, you're like, doing this interactive process of building theory and testing theory. And so, do you think there's like a challenge there, or attention, or it doesn't matter in terms of making the qualitative data open access?
Robert: Hmm. As in the epistemic standpoint, you hold
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Robert:  I would say, actually, I was. I would respond with the dilemma I was talking about before, which is obviously epistemic. Because, remember, we talked about, you know, I think it's good to have the data open access, but then because it's interpretive analysis, we're doing, you can always call back on the idea that, you know, you were the person that was there and and having access to all these contextual factors and and and, and socially embedded, meaning of what was being said and the gestures and the performativity of it all and you're the one being there. So epistemically, you're in a standpoint that has to be respected if you're aiming for interpretive analysis of that data. um, so yeah, I think, I think, I think qualitative open access puts you in a sort of weird spiral of legitimacy that you don't get when you're just putting out quantitative data, that you just have to run again and again and again, because that's not something you appeal against, whereas the interpretation of interpretation is always something you could appeal against. Yes, I think that. I think that's definitely an epistemic problem there and, and, I can imagine people being very adamant defending what they have found. I am, I think. It also, if you're asking an anthropologist, I don't know, if you talk to an anthropologist, I think they would also have the point, which is fair enough, which is that anthropologists often do come back ethnographies, where someone did an ethnography of this village and 30 years later somebody, not 30, just five perhaps, that somebody goes to the same village and asks exactly about the same topics, and tries to find exactly the same, at the same things and well. I guess if, if you could get to the same conclusions by just looking at the data instead of being there, it wouldn't be so, so, logical for ethnographers that there is a need, and, and a worthiness to doing the same research again in the same places again. And it reminds me of studies that, you know, contest very much what was found in previous studies, and I'm thinking, you know, partly what they can test is not because they have different perspective on the same data, but because you know, they went about different methods that managed to get the different perspective on the same research problem. Um, and obviously you can't get that different perspective, unless you create new data, you can't get that different perspective just by looking at the data that somebody perhaps generated in a faulty way, so to say.
Researcher 1:  Even yeah. Thank you very much. That was very interesting. So now I will repeat. The question that you already answer. So how likely is that you make your own qualitative data open access and why
Robert:  Hmm. At present, it is very unlikely, for the reason we talked about. I think it's, I think it's very unlikely because of the topics. I asked the questions, I ask at all, the people I’m interviewing, because my experience tells me that it would be very complicated to convince [them] - and it would definitely affect recruitment rates and recruitment success and perhaps even the quality of the data. Well, definitely, not perhaps, definitely would have quality of data. And because it, particularly in my case, it pushes me back into the need to write up consent forms. And because I don't think you can just explain what data archiving is, and archive data without a consent form. And then obviously, you have to get different consents for different, you know. You know, do I want to just participate in the study? But I don't don't want the data archived. But on both things or whatever, I think it pushes you into [a] situation where if consent forms are necessary, so It'll be an added problem. Overall, those reasons. Yeah, I don't, I stick by my decision. In the Ethics Review process. Yeah. That doesn't mean another project are good,…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Robert: …you know?
Robert:  Like in this project, for instance, I see [a] wide of variety of reason  it would be much easier for you than for me in my field, look, to convince the respondent to make the data open access, because you're interviewing people that is within the profession, and that understands and that empathise.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect, and thank you. And what did you say? Qualitative data generated by others on an open access basis as a secondary data set and why?
Robert:  I think that is very interesting, I think I would definitely be interested in doing something on that. And I like that, you said complementary isn't, I don't, I don't think I would ever invest in massive energy and time to just analyse qualitative data generated by other people because it's, I don't think it's worth the effort, if you can produce data, that is perfectly suited to the, the data you need, and to the methods that are best to answering your questions. Also, because I can imagine, you know, alternative analyses being discarded by original authors, for the reasons we talked about before, but as a complement, I think, I think it could be wonderful as a complement definitely. Yeah, there's also thinking for instance, like, I interview ordinary people, and, but then I have work with this guy that does kind of studies, similar concepts to mine, but he focuses on elites. So I'm thinking, it might be interesting to be like, you know, his work is complimentary, but it it also be useful in a certain way to go one step further and you know, just be like, you know, like to see the data and and contrasted in detail to my data, you know, that be definitely, that'd be pretty, but yeah, as a compliment here, definitely think it'd be something interesting.
Researcher 1: Perfect, thank you. And did you have any awareness of existing guidance of all resources for making qualitative data open access? And it could be within your university or more broadly?
Robert: Within my university,  what I had is, so this librarian I was talking to. She was very useful, she was really approachable, and she directed me to [a] series of, I think it was just, I think it was both from my university and resources from without, and she had written herself a series of blog posts on archiving, and whatever. That was very useful, and she had clearly, so I didn't know the resources but she made them available.
Researcher 1:  Okay. Perfect. And what do you think would be useful, or is needed to have like for you or for researchers to make your own research data open access?
Robert: I can only, as I said before, I can only, sorry if I repeat myself, I think, I think it's important here to the idea that you know I can't imagine really enabling factors.
Researcher 1:  No, that's okay.
Robert: I can only imagine. Yeah, but the only enabling factor would be if you could control who accesses the data, because they ask you. And otherwise it can only see constraints that could force people to to do so. Do you know that workflow, that would take to make open qualitative research like from planning the project to the data repository this year, I hadn't thought of it. I don't think. I don't think it would fundamentally alter how you go about the data generation, and the data analysis. I mean, I guess, you're asking because it might do in some way, but I can't think. I mean, you have to be systematic about the transcription style, but beyond that, I don't. Yeah, I don't think it should be that much of a hassle. Yeah. Okay, might get complicated if you've got various people doing the transcriptions. Yeah.
Researcher 1: Yeah. And do you have an idea of how would be the workflow workflow involved in, with using an existing open qualitative research that does it as a secondary basis.
Robert: Hmm, as a compliment, like we said before?
Researcher 1: As a compliment, you mean? Yeah?
Researcher 1: Yeah. You know.
Robert: I think. I think it would, because you have to map out like different coding strategies, right? Because it fundamentally alters the relation between some parts of the data and your research, question, for instance, and other parts of the data that are complementary to the research question, and on my feeling is that, it's just so much of a hassle. And it's other people's data. So I think, I can't imagine people going with a lot of trouble to actually dedicating the same attention to that data. Um, because nobody, so many, so much, so training in terms of time and resources, to go through the analysis of your own thing. Yeah, but on, I'm particularly, having [an] opinion on that.
Researcher 1: Now, that's fine. Well thank you very much. That was my last question. So now I will give you a small summary of the key things you said to me that I have on top of my mind so you can correct me if I say something that is not correct. And how well you had, you mentioned that you have a lot of experience working with qualitative data and you said that it allows you to engage and well, that is richer to engage in complex, theoretical debates. And you said that you started to thinking about open research, when you had to do, what your ethics application and did and you did your data management plan, and it was the librarian, that was telling you the option about, archiving your your data, but you decided to not make it a open access because you don't use consent forms,  because you think they don't make research more ethical and also because for the topic, you are researching and this would affect recruitment, and also, well, recruitment and the quality of your research. And also, while you decided, like, not to do not to do it because in case you would, decided to work, archiving your date and making it open access if you will have to explain what is archiving data. And also what is entail. So it's a complex concept to explain, and maybe people not involving academia and also, like you said, they would affect the quality of data, as they wouldn't be safe for the research and because what participants would not be will not feel safe to give you any honest responses. You said that it is important, as well, that open research is important, that you have used other people's quotes, and this allows you to like, with this time in learning new methods, but that you don't think that it would be transferable to qualitative research, and so, and also you said that it in terms of qualitative data, it's like the interpretation of the researcher that collected, the data that it's important and that should be respected. And while it would like and if making qualitative data, open access will allow other researchers to provide different perspectives on the data they would miss out on this context.
Robert: Hmm.
Researcher 1: Well the rich context, that would allow you to like craft your own arguments. That would mean we’re challenging
Robert:  Hey, there's a good/bad side. Yeah.
Researcher 1:  And also well, you said about barriers that it was like that, this that you would make in a data open what qualitative data open access would create a barrier to recruitment, and for research participants and also it will inhibit a participants to be a honest and responsive and also well you are doing data collection in different languages to English. So, this is another issue that you mentioned very briefly, and also, like well in barriers you mentioned this thing about the culture, know that qualitative is about the interpretation of the research and the data doesn't speak by itself. So that’s a problem, and enabling factors you mentioned, well, that funding, I mean, if it is required, that would make researchers’ to publish their data on an open access basis. But that you, but you also mentioned that it would be something that you would consider, if you had the power to grant permissions or to control who access your data and, so, to make sure that it's only people like working in academia, and that they won't harm your participants, especially because some of them are from, like, I imagine, small communities, and it will be very easy to identify them from like a transcription of an interview. And, you see, you did mention that you find that there's like an epistemic tension, because like, qualitative data and the finance from qualitative data are bound. Well, our link to the interpretation of the researcher that did that data collection and, well, if other researchers were to investigate the same topic to the same places, but if they use even the same methods or different methods, they would get different perspectives and from the safe topic and and this would like a challenge here like the arguments of the person that the data collection so that that would be an issue. So as you mentioned that you wouldn't do for this project, you wouldn't make it open access the data but from you would consider it for a different projects. And you find it interesting, the possibility of using other people’s dataset. But as a complement to your own primary data sets, and because you think it would, you would not substitute it with new data, with this secondary data sets, And yeah, you mentioned that there are some resources in your university that you managed to access to learn more about this. But yeah, that you say, like, what we need to make quality data, open access would be to have that the researcher that collected the data to have more control [over] who accesses it and uses the datasets. So I think that's basically what I have on top of my mind.
Robert: Yes, I think it's very good summary. Yeah.
Researcher 1:  Yeah, and perfect. So do you have any questions or concerns about the topic? The research or something?
Robert: I just wanted to kind to, because, um because I, it's something that was [at] the back of my mind, but I haven't really had the time to talk about it, to think about it. And, you know, I feel like I've got clear ideas now, and on something, it is important for the job. So yes, I think it's been something fantastically useful, thank you .
Researcher 1: You’re welcome, I found this interview was very interesting, because you know, in academia, sometimes we tend to respond to the research projects we are interested in, and maybe we are supportive of, and not that joint against open access, but as you do you show, very, like a strong opinion on why it is not ideal force.
Robert: Hmm. Yeah, fair enough, and particularly, it is harder to find people. Yeah.
Researcher 1: Yeah, so I think it was very, very rich. You gave me like, very interesting points of view on this topic and…
Robert:  Maybe for that.
Researcher 1: …so thank you for that. And thank you for giving me your time. And well, like I said, well the transcription of the interview would be open access. It would be well, would you like to be? So don't you mind or directly name in any output? Because it's up to you.
Robert: I don't know. I mean, is it, is it useful for you to have it either way?
Researcher 1: …and yeah, I think most people are asking, or are requesting to be pseudonymised, so I think, I mean…
Robert:  But is it easy for you? Is it better for you, or useful for you in any way that I put my name in?
Researcher 1: I mean, it is, or it is up to you, and but I mean it is not, yeah.
Robert: Okay, then we can just go first pseudonym, I think. Yeah. Yes.
Researcher 1: Yeah, perfect. Yeah, that's great. And well we will have the stakeholders workshop.
Robert:  Okay.
Researcher 1: I mean, if you're interested in the details, once I have them I can send them to you.
Robert:  Yeah, of course. Anything that you think I could help? Of course, I'll be there. Of course.
Researcher 1: Perfect. Thank you very much Roni. And are you happy? Well, you haven't sent me the consent form signed. When I ask it to send it to me.
Robert: I have sent to you. Just haven't received it, I had sent it.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect.
Robert: I have sent. 
Researcher 1: Yeah. Okay, perfect.
Researcher 1: Thank you very much. Are you happy with the consent? You gave me then.
Robert: This. I'm, I consent, I consent to everything. I'll take everything, I'll say.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect.
Robert: No problem with that.
Researcher 1: And I will send you the transcription of the interview once we have, like, clean them, a little bit for your approval before making it open access.
Robert:  Okay.
Researcher 1: So, and perfect.
Robert:  Sure.
Researcher 1: So I will stop recording now.