04-Apr-2023 - 11:03 - 38m00s - Pseudonym
Researcher 1: Perfect. And so, can you tell me a little bit about your field of research and which methods you use to gather data?
Sam: Okay, so I'm a little bit hybrid because I’ve got, like, a professorial research role. I've just finished some doctoral studies which is, more qualitative, and I also do a little bit of scholarship type of research as well. In terms of my professional role, So I'm, I wouldn't necessarily describe myself as a mixed method person or researcher, but then, I tend to do more quantitative work with people. I work with - in my professional role - and more qualitative research in terms of my own personal professional research, and my doctoral research as well. Does that help you?
Researcher 1: Yes. And what are the typical research methods that you've been, both quantitative and qualitative?
Sam:  Okay, so I tend to kind of leave more the quantitative side of things to my co-authors, and, but generally these around kind of systematic reviews, meta analyses, and so you're looking at large datasets of information, really in terms of that. And then, of course, all the quantitative statistical analysis that goes on with those. With my qualitative research - I've used surveys - I've used interviews, I've used workshops, focus groups. And that's probably about it, I think.
Researcher 1:  Okay. In what discipline did you do your PhD?
Sam:  Librarianship.
Researcher 1:  I just, and what methods, or software, you use to analyze your qualitative data.
Sam:  NVivo in the main, occasionally a little bit of Kind of Excel work as well.
Sam:  But it's mostly in, NVivo.
Researcher 1:  And we will. Yes, yeah, I use that one too. It's really, well, I find it really useful - and great like - to do everything. And what is your analytical framework or which theories do you use in your research?
Sam: So, I tend to use more of a relativist stance with my research. So more of an interpretivist kind of background, I guess really. And I tend to kind of try and look through my participants’ eyes really, I guess - in that kind of respect. And with respect of the, kind of more scholarship type research as well. I think that's quite important.
Researcher 1:  Yeah. That's really great. Um okay so you have experience with, well with the qualitative research interviews, workshops focus groups, and - and what is your experience in working with qualitative - that data in your usual research?
Sam:  So I've mainly used things like thematic analysis. Normally using the Braun and Clark, or Braun and Clark if you like, approach to thematic analysis. That's been the main method I've used. I think some co-authors have used things like phenomenology and things like that as well. But I'm more of a thematic analyst.
Researcher 1:  And in comparison to quantitative research, do you find, like, qualitative? I don't know. It's easy, like do you prefer it or…
Sam:  I like it because it resonates more with my professional background, and ultimately what I'm trying to explore in my research. Perhaps that also, I, well, qualitative is much more prevalent in librarianship and information science. We're not really taught very well, you know, in our kind of masters studies and things like that, we're not really taught quantitative methods as much. So, we're almost, in some respects, I think we're almost funnelled down a qualitative path.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Okay. Okay, that's interesting to know. And what is your perception and opinion -  and if you have done any about open research, in general?
Sam:  So what attracted me to this particular research that you're undertaking is because I work at a research-focused university where there is lots of support for, well, all sorts of kinds of open science, open data, and things like that. So, we have a data management team, for example, everyone's required to go on mandatory data management training. We are encouraged, indeed funded as a much more encouraging way to do data management plans, etc. so from the, well from before you start really, there is a real kind of in-depth understanding of the types of data, you're going to collect therefore, obviously, that feeds into consent etc. And also, how you're going to make that available at the very end of the project too. On the flip side. As my doctoral studies was with a teaching-based institution, which is much more teaching focused, [a] smaller institution, and there simply wasn't this level of support? I mean, simply just because of scale, really. So, That's where I was particularly interested in this piece of research because I felt that there was this gap or certainly this difference between the two universities that I've studied and worked and researched with, so I think there was both a lack of infrastructure and a lack of knowledge, as well in certain places. and I think that obviously needs to be addressed,
Researcher 1: Oh yes. Perfect. Thank you. Um, and what is your opinion around making qualitative data open access - broadly, and in your own research?
Sam:  I'm an advocate for it, both professionally in terms of my day-to-day job, but also in terms of me being a researcher myself. So obviously, it's not, obviously in my practice, in my experience it has been Much more prevalent - open data and publishing your data in the more quantitative, STEM disciplines that I kind of work - and coauthor with people. Maybe less so in the more qualitative, and arts and social sciences for example…
Researcher 1: So…
Sam:  …so I think they're, you know, I mean, as I say, in terms of an advocate, so I make my data open. I'm very clear with that. In my Consent Forms and Participant Information Sheets, for example. So I think it's very important as a practitioner, as well using other people's research and their data. I think in terms of qualitative research, I think it’s really important for transferability, for example. To some extent, reproducibility as well, in terms of reproducing methods, and ultimately building trust in the process. And I think given that I, you know, look, you know, with that kind of interpretivist and relativist stance when I'm reading other people's research. I sometimes think, well, perhaps I would, Interpret that data differently and therefore having that open data, which is not always clear in the research output itself. A journal article, for example, having an additional layer and granular detail of exactly what people did and why, I think, is really important in terms of, as I say, both - that kind of building trust in the process, but also in terms of making sure I can reproduce one - not necessarily reproduce - but replicate people’s studies, and adapt them according to my own local circumstance.
Researcher 1: Yeah, and so you mean you have done it, you have used other data sets?
Sam: Yeah, and so, yeah, but that means certainly in terms of, well, yeah, but both data sets, but also I guess data in terms of survey questions and things like that.
Researcher 1:  Okay.
Sam: Well so more in terms of the methods too.
Researcher 1:  Yes. Perfect, thank you. And what are your, what do you think are the barriers or what you perceive as various in making qualitative data open access?
Sam:  I, I think there's a perception that is very difficult to do and reproducibility is less of an issue. And well, in fact, far more difficult with qualitative. And science, or not even scientists, just qualitative research full stop, which I would agree to some extent. So I think there's a, there's that kind of perception from researchers. I think some of that perception could be overcome by better training, and, you know, I've mentioned things like, you know, data management plans and things like that as well. But also repositories and things like that, of data too. Advocating for those. That an awareness of those, that [they] exist currently. Not just from “where can I deposit my data”, but also “what have other people done?” That could inspire my research, or indeed prevent or minimize research waste in terms of making sure that people haven't done what you’re doing already, or plan to do already.
Researcher 1: Yes. and you, well. So you said the barriers, is that it is perceived, that it is very difficult - and reproducibility is not really common in qualitative research? Do you have, do you think about any other challenge or barrier with open qualitative research, or that's making it open access?
Sam: I think probably training as well…
Researcher 1: Now, yes.
Sam: …and there's a lack of training on what is open in qualitative disciplines”, and qualitative research, and also, How can I make my research open in qualitative research, as well.
Researcher 1:  Yes.And you have, do you? What you said. Well, you sort of mentioned this. It can be, also to phrase as ‘an enabling factor’, but are there other enabling factors that could help people make their qualitative data open access.
Sam: Um, yeah, I think I probably mentioned it in terms of Training.
Researcher 1:  Huh. Yes.
Sam: Repositories and awareness of those repositories of data. Then also in terms of peer-review as well, you know, and but both I guess, from an editorial. You know, let's say, you know, whether it's a journal, or a book, or what-have-you. Having more of a requirement to deposit data when you are looking to publish, and also, in terms of, you know, I guess it's opposite ends of the, of the piece of string, or whatever you want to call it, that, you know, you got - training is individuals - but then training those people to peer-review other people's outputs as well, so that together, you can tackle the issue, I guess, if that's if you want to look at it that way.
Researcher 1: Yes, that's a very interesting point, the very reviewed. I think of the people [who we] have interviewed, nobody has, nobody has mentioned that one. And what um, what about the ethics, or your, well, when you were like - want[ed] to make your open, your qualitative data open access, like in terms of protecting participants or gaining ethical approvals.
Sam:  About again, potentially this is an answer influenced by my quantitative colleagues. You know, I would say that ethics would probably be an easier process if people were clearer with what they wanted to collect and why they wanted to collect that data. Having that detail probably makes an ethics approval process a lot easier, both in terms of the person reviewing it, but also the person putting together the proposal. I think this is where the data management plan really comes to the fore, because you can really think in granular detail about, you know, what you want to collect, who you're collecting it from, how you're gonna anonymize that data if necessary, or pseudonymize that data? There, of course is attention. Between, you know, if you're not anonymising, or if you're anonymising, the process to greater extent - does that then affect the, you know, the reliability of the research, or the transferability of the research, or what-have-you. But, I think that's maybe where that, as I say, that data management plan comes in, because you can argue about those tensions when you're putting together that plan. And then you can tackle those barriers as to how open you want your research to be at that particular point.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Okay. And, and what about with your, from your epistemic perspective? Do you think there's attention in other, like, to make qualitative data open access and how would you overcome that one?
Sam: yeah, I think again, you know, like I mentioned at the very beginning to me, it's about trust in that process and also interpreting the raw data. Or the data generated through whatever methods or methodology you're using, and interpreting that through different eyes, you know. So, for example, my area of background crosses two sorts of professional barrier. It might have, some of my research tends to, kind of, cross two different professional barriers. So, I'm pretty sure that someone from the opposite professional background would read my findings in a very different way than I, you know, put them, and vice versa. So to me, that's really important, because other people can then you know, transfer those findings to different sectors or maybe, you know, contradict or reject some of my analyses based upon and their own professional backgrounds, and interpretation of the data, so, to me, you know, as I said, there is this tension between making the process too anonymous, and therefore, you take away some of the meaning potentially, in the, in the findings, and the discussion, for example. But that again, is where you, I think you probably need to be aware of what you're doing at the end, at the very beginning of the process, so that you can, you know, decide what level of open you want your research to be? So that you're not making things difficult for yourself. You're not, you're not deanonymizing the process. For example, you know, in your, in your write-up or what-have-you
Researcher 1: Yeah. Okay, thank you. And well how likely is [it] that you make your own qualitative, that data, open access? Or I imagine you have made it open access.
Sam:  Probably tell that I'm, as I say, I’m an advocate for this. So yeah, I think to me it's a yeah it's a you know, it's one of those founding principles of any type of research, that it's an important thing to do. You know? It's as simple as that to me.
Sam: And again…
Researcher 1: Yeah.
Sam: …their attention is there, but you know, you need your, [at] least need to make something open, otherwise, you know, otherwise there are, you know, there are outputs that I have read and I simply cannot interpret that through my own eyes because I don't have enough, there's not enough detail in the 1,000 word article, for example, for me to actually really understand exactly how and why the research has been done, and how the interpretation of that research has come to the fore. So, you need that extra level of data and detail in order to make the research much more usable at the end of the day, I think.
Researcher 1:  Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Sam:  Perhaps that, that's because I'm much more of, as I say, kind of more of a practitioner that I need that kind of, that detail in order to transfer some of the findings to my own situation, for instance, I don't know. But potentially I agree with that part of, like increased level of usability of data. Yeah, and…
Sam:  Yeah.
Researcher 1: ….this, like, doing these interviews has made me reflect a lot of my research, because I decided to make, like, everything completely anonymous to protect my participants. But then I, I, it's it's, well, I find it like very sad, because I have a lot, I collected a lot of data, and I keep what will meet that - or what I can do with it. So, yeah.
Sam: Oh yeah. Yeah.
Researcher 1: But yeah, that's, that, I like this part and what you're, this point you're making. I agree with it, and well, how likely is that. you use data generated by others? Well you said that you have, like, some like questions, but also like, like, datasets, would you use them as a secondary data set?
Sam: Yes, so what I have done in the past is, and you know where I've done my own kind of scholarship - research, for example, I have built upon the work of others, both in terms of the methods, so survey questions for example. So, if reproduced some of the things in terms of survey, questions and built upon those, I've also then been able to compare and contrast, and say “well, look, you know, again, qualitative research tends to be smaller samples”. So we can say, “Okay, well, look in this sample of people, in this particular situation, this is what they said” and blah, blah. Comparing, contrast that to, to what I have done using the same or kind of slightly modified questions depending on the local context and then I've been able to, you know, add that comparability I guess, which again might, you know, I've already talked about how two different universities are very different in terms of their approach and again in that kind of more scholarship aspect, that's kind of, you know, was really important, and say, okay, well you know, this is how the two things compare for example.
Researcher 1:  Yes. So basically, you've used other methods, perfect, thank you, and well, you've mentioned the data management plan, and training, and when I'm training for this, but do you have any awareness of other existing guidance as a resource to make qualitative data open access? It can be broadly or in your university?
Sam: So the only other thing I'm really aware of is so I published them on my doctoral research. On the UK Data Service and they have some really good guidance there for, well, anyone, you know, can be qualitative or mixed, and, but I think for qualitative research, obviously there is lots there that is is really quite good in terms of their guidance and
Researcher 1: Okay.
Sam:  …so I've used that, as well, to supplement the things I've had locally from research support
Researcher 1:  Okay, thank you. And what do you think would be useful or is needed to make qualitative data open access?
Sam:  Well, I again, you know, talked about infrastructure before I think, you know, obviously probably You need the people, you need the training of those people, you need good data, responsible repositories that are fit for purpose for qualitative research, and you know, some of them tend to have been built, you know, on quantitative methodologies, etc., or to host quantitative research, and sometimes those repositories need tweaking for example, to, to fit a more qualitative dataset. Again with, you know, I guess it takes, it’s a shift as well, for let's say, you know, journal publishers as well, to think about how they're going to handle supplementary materials, for example, and you know, especially in some qualitative areas of research where you could have, you know, quite large data sets of information in terms of gigabytes of files and that sort of stuff. So, there needs to be that side of infrastructure, too, yeah. As I say, lots of training and awareness for you know, for people who are going to train individual researchers, but also for the individual researchers to increase their knowledge of open data practices as well. And licensing too. I guess, you know, talked about Creative  Comp where you talked about Creative Commons, you know, again, I think there's a fairly decent awareness, I would say with qualitative researchers about Creative Commons, you know, and I think those are all kind of related, kind of concepts really in terms of openness.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Yes. Yeah I think yeah, that's a good point, the licenses. And could you explain [to] me a little bit about your process, and how you go about generating open qualitative research, like, from planning the, from planning the project to the data repository?
Sam: So start off with, the data management plan - and there, that, I start to think about consent and participant information sheets. I think about what sort of data I'm going to generate through the project. And obviously the two then sort of feed into each other. When I, then generate the data, I need to think about, you know, how I'm going to capture that data and whether I'm going to, you know, and sort of I guess what formats. Once I've done that, and I'm importing that into in NVivo, then I need to think about how I'm going to interpret that data, and how I'm going to make that process clear and open as well, you know. Obviously, some of that is through the research outputs. But also, in terms of how I'm going to export this data from NVivo into an open-source piece of software, you know, like, I can't remember, like a, a rich ….
Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
Sam: Yeah, rich text file, and that sort of stuff, you know. So that, the, I guess there's no really there should be that line I guess from the very start to the output as well. And I've also then when I've been thinking about where I'm going to publish that data, you know I've both looked in terms of you know what I'm going to put it in terms of repositories, data repositories. But also, when I'm looking then at journals, for example, if I'm publishing an article, I'm, part of my decision-making process is about the infrastructure and support that those publishers, I guess, or what-have-you, have for supporting the type of output like writing, and their ability to then support linking to data sets and that sort of stuff as well.
Researcher 1: Yes. Yeah. That's very important.
Sam:  I think some publishers are more mature, if that's the right word, in those processes and their guidance for authors. Whereas, some obviously are, a little bit more behind the curve.
Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect, thank you. And what about the workflow involved in using existing open qualitative research, how it works?
Sam: So, I have, I think yes, the UK Data Service is one that I've used in the past. That, the, what certainly the guidance they provide, and I think there's a kind of a not a peer-review, but quality assurance kind of process behind that as well. So, when you depositing your data there, you know you're encouraged to state the licence of reuse. And obviously, that then makes it much more easy than just to, kind of, have a search, or a browse for relevant data there, and then see how, when, why or what have you you're able to use or reuse that data? So that's really clear. Where, I've been reading an article, for example, and there isn't enough information, then I have in the past contacted authors to see whether there's any additional information available on their methods, on their datasets as well. And, as you can imagine, it's a little bit piecemeal as to whether you get a reply in the first place and,…
Researcher 1:  Yeah.
Sam: …and also, to what extent they're in, then able to share data with you as well.
Researcher 1:  Yeah, and I'm just curious about when you look at the UK Data Services. So what you said, you, you were just browsing, and data, it's like - to look for a, I imagine that specific survey, or something that was related to your research?
Sam: Yeah yeah. So, I do exactly that. You know, you can browse by subject and that sort of stuff, and and search as well for relevant concepts too. So, yes, I've done both of those things.
Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. Yeah. Okay, well I think well, that was my last question. Thank you very much. Now, I will do a little but a little summary with like, but, I have, like, right now on my mind of what you told me. And well, you told me that you are an advocate of open access research and because of your professional role, where you have had a lot of support and around training and with data management plans. And also, you see that, it's like funders are now encouraging researchers to have a data management plan, and that this has allowed you to and like plan in detail, like what type of data you're collecting, and how you're going to make it open and open access. And this is not common, like, everywhere in academia. No? There are like other universities where, like, there's no emphasis on this? And well, you are an advocate of open science because you want to increase that or build trust in the research process. So like, in a way, to increase even with qualitative data, increase reproductivity and transparency like by making available the methods and and and yeah, the methods and the data sets. And also, like, to grasp, like, if findings produced by others, like if there's not enough detail, maybe then with the data said you would be able to and understand how they came to those conclusions. So again, it increases transparency and builds trust in the research process. And you just, you mentioned as barriers that researchers tend to think that making qualitative data open access is very difficult and it's also, and that also reproducibility is not a very, well, common, or used in qualitative research. And also that there's low awareness of repositories and and that's also lack of information of how other researchers can use these repositories and and this data sets available. You mentioned that to enable, well, enabling factors would be obviously more training, and that would also increase awareness of these, and data repositories, and maybe, like, also make a shift in, the, with publishers around peer-review processes, and require also, and like that, qualitative researchers the to deposit some data, and also all this would need training - for those people - also to see like for peer-review of these outputs. And in the ethics, well you said that, well, then, around the ethical issues you said that, that's where the data management plan is very useful, because it allows researchers to reflect, like, what type of data they are collecting and why they need to collect it and then reflect about how anonymous the data can be or should be a And also to discuss this tensions about how to make it open. But also like to protect research, participants and and well around, well, the epistemics you mentioned, like, is not like, I mean not to, like, like, making qualitative - that it would not allow, like to make, like, to exactly reproduce research, but it could help you to, um, like enrich - or use some other methods in your research, and also to transfer your findings to other sectors, or also challenge other researchers, maybe challenge what you're finding. So it would increase trust in the in the, in the research process, and well, yes, you also mentioned that using other data sets or making my qualitative data open access would allow to compare and contrast if you use a specific method used by another researcher and you use it in your field and you can provide this a comparison, and well yeah, an increase is compatibility and about resources. Well you mentioned that education, that the [UK DA] service has very good guidance, and what you said that it is needed to promote more people to make going open with their qualitative data is also, like, to, we have to build up the infrastructure. We need, like, to train stuff around these, and all. So, like, we need data repositories that are fit or more fit for qualitative data. Also, there's, we need a shift in journals, to be also capable of managing, like, theses large data sets and open qualitative data sets, and and also while training for researchers around open access and licensing and, yeah, I think that's like what the process you've mentioned it, but it was very clear. I don't need to repeat it, and I don't know if you have if I summarized everything correctly?
Sam: That sounds. Yeah. Sounds like a good summary to me.
Researcher 1:  Perfect, and do you have any concerns around this interview, the project…
Sam:  No. I think you've. Yeah, you've done. Yeah. Great.
Researcher 1: Perfect. Thank you. Are you still happy with the consent? You gave me at the start of the interview. And perfect.
Sam:  I am, yes.
Researcher 1: Thank you. And would you prefer to be pseudonymised or directly named in the outputs?
Sam:  A pseudonym please.
Researcher 1: Well, and well, you already mentioned that you're not available for this, the stakeholders workshop, but if you want, I can send you the information once I have the details, and just in case you're available. Perfect. Well that's everything.
Sam:  Okay, yes. Yeah. Yeah, please do that. Yeah.
Researcher 1: From, well I will stop recording, and perfect, thank you. So you will receive a link from Google with the transcription of the recording and if you need, or if you feel you want to edit something, you can't do it and if you don't receive it, you can email me and send it. Well, I find if, I see that the Google didn't share with you, I will share with you and if you need [or] have any other questions, please feel free to contact me.
Sam: That's okay, right. Thank you very much for your time. And thank you.
Researcher 1: No, thank you for your time.
Sam: Good luck. With the rest of the project.
Researcher 1: Thank you very much and have a nice day. Nice to meet you. Bye.